                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF        
                                       SRI LANKA                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          In the matter of an Application under and in
                                                                                    
                                          terms of Article 17 and Article 126 of the
                                          Constitution.                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          Ravidu Viduranga Lokuge                   
                                                                                    
                                          appearing by his next friend              
                                          Haputhanthrige Geethanjali Prasadhika,    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          Both of No. 265/N/98, Torrington Flats,   
                                          Housing Scheme,                           
                                                                                    
                                          Torrington Avenue,                        
                                          Colombo 05.                               
                                                                                    
                                          Petitioner                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          -Vs.-                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                     1.   Upali Gunasekera                          
                                          Principal,                                
                                                                                    
                                          Royal College,                            
                                          Colombo 07.                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                     2.   Wimal Gunaratne,                          
                                                                                    
                                          Former Principal of Thurstan College,     
                                          Chairman,                                 
                                                                                    
                                          Objections Panel of the Royal College     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         1          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          Year one admissions for the year 2011,    
                                          Royal College,                            
                                                                                    
                                          Colombo 7.                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                     3.   H. M. Gunasekara                          
                                          Secretary,                                
                                                                                    
                                          Ministry of Education,                    
                                          “Isurupaya”,                              
                                                                                    
                                          Battaramulla.                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                     4.   Attorney General                          
                                          The Attorney General's Department,        
                                                                                    
                                          Colombo 12.                               
                                          Respondents                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Before    :    The Honourable P. A. Ratnayake PC, J.                    
                           The Honourable S. I. Imam J.                             
                                                                                    
                           The Honourable P. Dep PC, J.                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Counsel   :    Mr. Manohara De Silva PC with Ms. Darini Daluwatte       
                           for the Petitioners.                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                           Ms. S. Herath SSC., for the AG.                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Argued on :    28.06.2012                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Written Submissions of the Respondents                                  
            Tendered on :  24.07.2012                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         2          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Written Submissions of the Petitioner                                   
            Tendered on :  04.09.2012                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Judgment delivered on :  12.10.2012                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            S.I. Imam, J.                                                           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The Petitioner tendered this Application alleging an infringement of his Fundamental Rights
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            as guaranteed in Article 12 (1) of the Constitution. On 15.11.2011 this Court having
                                                                                    
            heard submissions of the learned President's Counsel for the Petitioner and the learned
                                                                                    
            Additional Solicitor General for the Respondents granted Leave to Proceed for the alleged
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            violation of Article 12 (1) of The Constitution.                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The facts of the case are briefly as follows. The Petitioner through his Next Friend namely
                                                                                    
            his mother applied to Royal College Colombo 7 for admission as a grade one student for
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            the Academic Year commencing 2011 under section 6.1 of The Circular 2010/21 dated
                                                                                    
            31.5.2010 annexed marked A to the Petition which dealt with Applicants whose
                                                                                    
            “Residence is in close proximity to the school.” On being called for an Interview the
                                                                                    
                                                      th                            
            Petitioner having obtained 54 marks was placed in the 119 position above the Cut off
                                                                                    
            point of 52 in The Provisional List annexed marked “D” to the Petition. Subsequently
                                                                                    
                                                                st                  
            by letter dated 13.11.2010 annexed marked as 'E' to the Petition the 1 Respondent
                                                                                    
            namely the Principal of the Royal College informed the Next Friend of the Petitioner to
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         3          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            present herself on 28.11.2010 to face a Protest Inquiry with regard to an objection
                                                                                    
            purported to have been tendered against the Petitioner. Although the Petitioner's Next
                                                                                    
            – Friend duly presented herself at the aforesaid Inquiry on 28.11.2010 neither was the
                                                                                    
            Identity of the objector nor the nature of the objection divulged to the Next Friend. On
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            24.12.2010 although the Final List of Students selected to Royal College was released,
                                                                                    
            the Petitioner learnt that his name had not been included in the Final List, marked as
                                                                                    
            'F' and annexed to the Petition. The Petitioner contended that although he was placed in
                                                                                    
                  th                                                                
            the 119 position in The Provisional List, as 140 students were selected in the Final
                                                                                    
            List, that 21 students who were placed below him in the Provincial List were admitted
                                                                                    
            to Royal College. The Petitioner hence filed this application to this Court, as he had been
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            treated Unreasonably and Unequally. He states that although he had fulfilled the
                                                                                    
            Selection Criteria having obtained 54 marks in the Provisional List, the Petitioner was
                                                                                    
            left out of the Final list of students admitted to Royal College.       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                         st                                         
            In paragraph 10 of the Affidavit of the 1 Respondent dated 4.1.2012 it was admitted
            that the Petitioner received 54 marks after the initial Interview. The aforesaid Affidavit of
                                                                                    
                st                                                                  
            the 1 Respondent stated that consequent to the Appeals and Protest Board Interview
                                                                         st         
            12 marks allocated to The Petitioner were deducted and hence it was averred by the 1
                                                                                    
            Respondent that the marks received by the Petitioner should have been 42 marks and not
                                                                                    
            54 marks as previously obtained by the Petitioner. The main basis for this deduction
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         4          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            amongst others was that neither the name of the Petitioner nor The name of the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner's Next Friend appeared in The Electoral CD provided by The Elections
                                                                                    
            Commissioner's Office for the year 2006 for which 7 marks were deducted and
                                                                                    
            Vidyathilaka Vidyalaya having been considered as an Intervening School between the
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Petitioner's Residence and Royal College a further 5 marks were deducted, the total
                                                                                    
            deduction being 12 marks, which reduced the marks obtained by the Petitioner to 42.
                                                                                    
            At the hearing it was conceded by the learned State Counsel that the Primary Section of
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Lumbini Vidyalaya had been shifted to Wellawatte, which according to the Respondents
                                                                                    
            entitled the Petitioner to another 5 marks which increased the marks obtained by the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner to 47.                                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            A matter for consideration would be the Legality and Propriety of the Decision of The
                                                                                    
            Appeals and Protest Board. It was contended on behalf of the Petitioner that Circular
                                                                                    
            2010/21 in clause 10.0 and specifically in Clause 10.6 stated that only the Documents
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            that were submitted should be Re Examined. It was urged that clause 10.6 also
                                                                                    
            stipulated that a Report relating to the Appeals and Protest Board Inquiry should be
                                                                                    
            submitted, which had not been complied with by the Respondents, and it was
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            contended on behalf of the Petitioner that the original 54 marks obtained by the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner should not be altered. It was argued on behalf of the Petitioner that the
                                                                                    
            aforesaid Clause 10.6 specified that it was only the Documents that were produced at the
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         5          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Interview which The Appeals and Protest Board Panel were permitted to Re-scrutinize,
                                                                                    
            and hence a CD which the Next-Friend of the Petitioner could not Rebut and could not
                                                                                    
                                                               st                   
            be referred to. Consequently as admitted in paragraph 10 of the 1 Respondent's
            Affidavit the Petitioner was initially granted the maximum of 35 marks for Electoral
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Register, which was subsequently reduced to 28 marks by the Appeals and Protest Board
                                                                                    
            Panel with regard to The Electoral Register 2005, 2007, 2008 and 2009 for other
                                                                                    
            supporting Documents as they were not in the name of the Petitioner. It is my view
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            however, that the CD produced for the year 2006 issued by The Election Commissioner's
                                                                                    
            was not available for Re-Scrutiny by the Next Friend of The Petitioner, and hence could
                                                                                    
            not be referred to. Hence the reduction of marks form 35 to 28 for Electoral Register is
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            incorrect and contrary to the provisions contained in Clause 10.6. Thus marks
                                                                                    
            obtained by the Petitioner for Electoral Register should in my view be 35 as decided at
                                                                                    
            the Initial Inquiry. It is also I state necessary for The Appeals and Protest Board to
                                                                                    
            follow the Procedure as set out in Clause 10.6 in Circular 2010/21. The Respondents
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            however accept the position that the Petitioner's name is in one of the lists of The
                                                                                    
            Grama Niladari for the year 2006.                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The Respondents averred that Circular 2010/21 contains identical sections in respect
                                                                                    
            of Section 6.1(ii) and 6.1(iv) as in Circular 2008/21. It was contended by the
                                                                                    
            Respondents that challenging the Executive Act of enumerating the Policy in respect of
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         6          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            admitting students to Government Schools in The Circular is time barred as it first
                                                                                    
            appeared in 2008/21. It was pointed out by the Respondents that prayer (b) to this
                                                                                    
                                 st                                                 
            Application is against the 1 Respondent who had to act according to the Policy
                                            st                                      
            Document namely 2010/21, and that the 1 Respondent having acted in conformity
                                                                                    
            with Circular 2010/21 had not infringed the Fundamental Rights of the Petitioner who
                                                                                    
            had been treated equally among all the other Applicants. It was contended by the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner that the Petitioner can and is entitled to challenge Circular 2010/21 as
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Arbitrary and Unreasonable at the point at which he is affected by The Circular and not
                                                                                    
            only at the time when the aforesaid Circular was published calling for Applications. The
                                                                                    
            Petitioner stressed that it was only at the time when the Petitioner was deprived of
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Admission to Royal College that the Petitioner could challenge The Circular, as it was
                                                                                    
            only then that his Fundamental Rights had been violated in accordance with the
                                                                                    
            Provisions of The aforesaid Circular.                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Article 126 (2) of The Constitution states as follows: “Where any person alleges that
                                                                                    
            any such Fundamental Right or Language Right relating to such person has been
                                                                                    
            infringed or is about to be infringed by Executive or Administrative Action, he may by
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            himself or by an Attorney at Law on his behalf, within one month thereof in accordance
                                                                                    
            with such Rules of Court as may be in force, apply to The Supreme Court by way of
                                                                                    
            Petition in writing addressed to such Court praying for Relief or Redress in respect of such
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         7          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Infringement. Such Application may be proceeded with only with Leave to Proceed
                                                                                    
            first had and obtained from The Supreme Court which Leave may be granted or
                                                                                    
            refused as the case may be by not less than two Judges. “Hence for a Petitioner to seek
                                                                                    
            redress under this Article there must be an Infringement or Imminent Infringement of a
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Fundamental Right or Language Right. It was averred on behalf of the Petitioner that
                                                                                    
            the Infringement took place when the Petitioner's name was omitted from the Final List
                                                                                    
            for Admission to grade 1 of Royal College, having taken into consideration the
                                                                                    
                                                             st                     
            preceding facts of this case. The Respondents contended that the 1 Respondent had
                                                                                    
            not infringed the Fundamental Rights of the Petitioner. The Respondents further
                                                                                    
            submitted that the Placement of The Circle which had the Radius between the
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Residence of the Petitioner and The Primary School of Royal College was to be
                                                                                    
            considered by having examined the Petitioner's own Document 'H1'. In H1 the
                                                                                    
            Respondents pointed out that Circle No. 2 marked in Red chalk was marked by the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner to be the correct Circle from which the Intervenient Schools should be
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            considered for marks to be deducted. The Respondents claimed that as there are 9
                                                                                    
            schools within the Correct Circle H – 1 the act of deducting 45 marks for Intervenient
                                                                                    
            Schools in between the Residence of the Petitioner and The Primary School of Royal
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            College is in accordance with the Provisions of The Circular, and thus the Respondents
                                                                                    
            have not violated the Fundamental Rights of the Petitioner in this regard. However the
                                                                                    
                                                       rd                           
            Respondents conceded upon receiving instructions from the 3 Respondent that Lumbini
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         8          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Vidyalaya situated at Skelton Road, Colombo 5 does not have its Primary at the same
                                                                                    
            location, but at Wellawatta, which is well outside the Proximity Circle of the Petitioner.
                                                                                    
            The Respondents contended that Vidyathilaka Vidyalaya which is situated in the Centre
                                                                                    
            of the Circle of Document H1 was by mistake not taken into account at the Initial
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Interview. The existence of Vidyathilaka Vidyalaya was accepted by the Petitioner in
                                                                                    
            paragraph 21 of his Counter Affidavit dated 13.3.2012, although he has stated that the
                                                                                    
            Advanced Level classes are not available at Vidyathilaka Vidyalaya. The Petitioner
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            having referred to the Plan 1R1 stated that the number of Intervenient Schools could
                                                                                    
            change depending on where the Compass is placed. In determining the Number of
                                                                                    
            Intervenient Schools a Circle was drawn, the base of the Compass being placed at the
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Petitioner's Residence, the Radius of the Circle being the distance between the
                                                                                    
            Residence and the school. The Petitioner averred that as he resided at the Torrington
                                                                                    
            Flats Housing Scheme which encompassed a large area, schools that are near the edge
                                                                                    
            of the Circle could be deemed inside or outside the Circle, dependant on where the
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Compass is placed. It was contended by the Petitioner that the Plan 1R1 depicted
                                                                                    
            Thurstan College as being near The Science Faculty of the The University of Colombo
                                                                                    
            which is an incorrect Assessment. The Petitioner reiterated that Thurstan College and
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            St. Mary's Mixed School are two schools that could be either inside the Circle or outside
                                                                                    
            the Circle dependant on where the Base of the Compass is kept. The Petitioner
                                                                                    
            contended that out of the 8 Schools considered as Intervening Schools, 3 Schools
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                         9          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            namely Mahamathya Vidyalaya, St. Mary's Mixed School and Vidyathilaka Vidyalaya
                                                                                    
            do not have provision for Advanced Level Education. From the remaining 5 Schools
                                                                                    
            Duddly Senanayake Vidyalaya provided for Arts and Commerce subjects at the
                                                                                    
            Advanced Level and Parakramabahu Vidyalaya provided only for Arts subjects at The
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Advanced Level. It was submitted by the Petitioner that when parents applied for a
                                                                                    
            School they generally expected the child to study up to the Advanced level. Thus is
                                                                                    
            twas contended by the Petitioner that in the interpretation of Section iv of Clause 6.1 it
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            would be reasonable to consider an interpretation that is least disruptive of a child's
                                                                                    
            Education. Certain schools do not have 'A' level classes but in the event of a student
                                                                                    
            wishing to do the 'A' levels The Government would find a school within close proximity. If
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            such schools are not considered as Intervening schools, The Education Department may
                                                                                    
            be posed with difficulties.                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Initially the 9 Schools referred to as “Intervening Schools” were 1. Thurstan College
                                                                                    
            2. D.S. Senanayake Vidyalaya 3. Sri Parakrama Maha Vidyalaya 4. Vidhyathilake
                                                                                    
            Vidyalaya 5. Dudley Senanayake Vidyalaya 6. Isipathana Maha Vidyalaya 7.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Mahamathya Maha Vidyalaya 8. Lumbini Maha Vidyalaya and 9. St. Mary's Mixed
                                                                                    
            School which the Petitioner had obtained 05 marks out of 50 marks for “Proximity from the
                                                                                    
            Residence to the School”, 45 marks having been reduced on the basis that 09 other
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Schools were in closer proximity to the Petitioner's Residence. The Petitioner set out
                                                                                    
            reasons earlier having explained why the deduction of marks for the 7 other schools that
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                        10          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            were said to be in closer proximity to the Petitioner's Residence was unfair. Although the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner initially obtained 15 marks for Clause iv namely “Proximity from Residence to
                                                                                    
            school”, 10 marks were further deducted under Section 6.1 Clause iv, reducing the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner's marks in this category to 05 marks, thereby reducing the Aggregate of the
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            marks obtained by the Petitioner to 44. Having examined Clause iv the further
                                                                                    
            reduction of 10 marks is in my view unfair. Hence the allocation of 15 marks to the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner originally for Clause iv, though in my view insufficient, should not be further
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            reduced. It is my view that in respect of Clause iv, a reasonable and fair interpretation
                                                                                    
            should be given.                                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            I wish to refer to the following relevant Authorities.                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            1.   In Haputhanthrige and others Vs. Attorney General 2007(1) SLR p. 101, His
                                                                                    
                 Lordship Sarath N. Silva CJ at the inception stated as follows:    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 “The Petitioners in all the Applications have been granted Leave to
                                                                                    
                 proceed on the alleged infringement of their Fundamental Rights    
                                                                                    
                 guaranteed by Article 12(1) of The Constitution. The infringements 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 they allege are in respect of the refusal to admit the several children in
                                                                                    
                 the Petitions to Grade 1 of the respective National Schools        
                                                                                    
                 “.................” The allegations have related to Unequal, Arbitrary
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                        11          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 and Capricious Application of the relevant Circulars resulting in  
                                                                                    
                 less suited Children securing Admission to the detriment of the children
                                                                                    
                 who have been thereby compelled to invoke the Jurisdiction of Courts.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            2.   In Ceylon Paper Sacks Ltd. Vs. Janatha Estate Development Board    
                                                                                    
                 and others BLR 1993 Vol. V part 1 page 6 His Lordship Kulatunga,   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 J. held that:                                                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 “A determination as to whether the decision to reject a Tender is  
                                                                                    
                 violative of the Tenderer's Rights under Article 12(1) of The      
                                                                                    
                 Constitution cannot be made by the mere application of the principles of
                                                                                    
                 Administrative law relating to the Vires of Administrative action. The
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 question is whether between persons who are similarly              
                                                                                    
                 circumstanced there was unlawful discrimination …......”           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            In School admission cases Publication of the Notice calling for Admission does not violate
                                                                                    
            the Petitioner's Fundamental Rights. It is only after he applies for Admission and his
                                                                                    
            Admission is Refused that infringement takes place. It is only then that the time
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            period in Article 126 would apply to the Petitioner. In my view the Respondents have
                                                                                    
            failed to apply Circular No. 2010/21 fairly and reasonably. Due to the negligence and
                                                                                    
            failure of the Respondents to act fairly and reasonably the Petitioner has been deprived of
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                        12          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                 SC. FR. Application No. 492/2011   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            the equal protection of the law as guaranteed by Article 12(1) of the Constitution and was
                                                                                    
            thereby deprived Admission to Royal College, whereby candidates that were marked
                                                                                    
            outside the Marking Scheme were granted Admission to Royal College.     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Hence I declare that the Petitioner's Fundamental Rights guaranteed under Article
                                                                                    
                                                    st                              
            12(1) of The Constitution has been infringed by the 1 Respondent as sought for in
            prayer (b) of the Petition dated 24.10.2011. Answering prayer ( c) of the Petition I
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Declare that the Petitioner's Fundamental Rights guaranteed under Article 12(1) has been
                                                                                    
            infringed by the Decision to omit his name from the final list of students selected to Royal
                                                                                    
                                              st    rd                              
            College. In the circumstances I Direct the 1 and 3 Respondents to admit the
                                                                                    
            Petitioner to Royal College.                                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            I do not order costs.                                                   
                                                                                    
                                          JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            P. A. Ratnayake PC. J.                                                  
                                                                                    
            I agree.                                                                
                                                                                    
                                          JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            P. Dep PC. J                                                            
                                                                                    
            I agree.                                                                
                                                                                    
                                          JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                        13          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    