                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     SC. Appeal No. 80/2011       
                                                                                  
         IN THE SUPREME  COURT OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF         
                                                                                  
                                    SRI LANKA                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     In the matter of an Application for Leave to 
                                     Appeal in terms of Section 754 read together 
                                                                                  
                                     with Section 757 of the Civil Procedure Code 
                                     and Section 5A of the High Court of the      
                                                                                  
                                     Provinces (Special Provisions) (Amendment)   
                                                                                  
                                     Act No. 54 of 2006.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     Bambarawana Liyanagamage Dayawahie           
                                                                                  
                                     alias Daya Abeyawicsrama,                    
                                     No. 320, Galle Road,                         
                                                                                  
                                     Mount Lavinia.                               
                                     Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent             
                                                                                  
                                     -Appellant                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        SC. Appeal No. 80/2011                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        SC(HC) CALA Case No. 63/11                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        HCCAMT  Case No. 118/07/F                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        D.C. Mount Lavinia Case No. 1316/00/L                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     -Vs.-                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                 Magage Nimal Dias,                               
                                                                                  
                                 Magage Kumara Ranjith Dias                       
                                                                                  
                                 Magage Sirisena Chandra Dias                     
                                 Magage Manel Dias                                
                                                                                  
                                All of them at No. 314/2,                         
                                                                                  
                                Galle Road,                                       
                                                                   Page 1 of 8    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     SC. Appeal No. 80/2011       
                                                                                  
                                Mount Lavinia.                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     Defendants-Appellants-Respondents            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        BEFORE        :    Tilakawardane, J.                                      
                                                                                  
                           Dep, PC., J. &                                         
                           Wanasundera, PC, J.                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        COUNSEL       :    Champaka  Ladduwahetti for the Substituted             
                           Plaintiff-Respondent-Appellant.                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                           Ranjan Suwandaratne for the Defendants-                
                           Appellants-Respondents                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        ARGUED  ON    :    18.10.2012                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        DECIDED  ON   :    07.12.2012                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        TILAKAWARDENA,  J                                                         
                                                                                  
        Leave to Appeal was granted to the Substituted Plaintiff – Respondent – Appellant
        (hereinafter referred to as the Substituted Appellant) on 17th June 2011 as
                                                                                  
        against the Judgment dated 17th January 2011 of the Provincial High Court of
        Civil Appeal of Mount Lavinia (hereinafter referred to as the Civil Appellate High
                                                                                  
        Court) bearing case No. WP/HCCA/Mt/118/07 F.                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The deceased Plaintiff (husband of the Substituted Appellant) instituted action in
                                                                                  
        the District Court of Mount Lavinia bearing case No. 1316/00/L, against the 1st
                                                                                  
        to the 4th Defendant – Appellant – Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the
        Respondents), seeking inter alia for a declaration that the deceased Plaintiff is
                                                                                  
        entitled to commonly possess Lot ‘A3’ (described in No. 1 of the Schedule to the
        Plaint and No.2 of the Schedule of Deed No. 5301 dated 26th January 1976  
                                                                                  
        attested by S. Wickremasinghe, Notary Public) together with other owners of that
                                                                                  
        property, for an order directing the removal of all constructions and obstructions
                                                                   Page 2 of 8    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     SC. Appeal No. 80/2011       
                                                                                  
        caused to the Lot ‘A3’ and for a permanent  injunction restraining the    
                                                                                  
        Respondents from constructing temporary and permanent structures within the
        said road way.                                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The Substituted Appellant's assertion is that the deceased Plaintiff became the
        owner of the property described in No. 1 of the Schedule to the Plaint together
                                                                                  
        with the right of access described as the second land in the Schedule to the Plaint
        by way  of Deed  No.  5301 dated  26th January  1976 attested by S        
                                                                                  
        Wickremasinghe, Notary Public (marked as ‘P1’) and Plan No. 903 dated 05th
                                                                                  
        September 1942 made by J. P. Melony, Licensed Surveyor, (marked as ‘P2’). 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The Respondents deny inter alia the claims made by the deceased Plaintiff to the
                                                                                  
        said road, expressing strongly that the deceased Plaintiff never used the said
        right of access in question and that it is only used for the purpose of gaining
                                                                                  
        access to Lot ‘A1’ in Plan ‘P2’.                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The Learned District Judge entered Judgment in favour of the deceased Plaintiff.
                                                                                  
        The Respondents thereafter sought relief by way of appeal to the Civil Appellate
        High Court bearing case No. WP/HCCA/Mt/118/07 F. The Learned Judges of the
                                                                                  
        Civil Appellate High Court entered judgment in favour of the Respondents. 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Being aggrieved by the said Judgment of the Civil Appellate High Court the
                                                                                  
        Substituted Appellant seeks to, among other things, set aside the judgment of the
        Civil Appellate High Court dated 17th January 2011 and affirm the judgment of
                                                                                  
        the District Court of Mount Lavinia dated 13th December 2007.             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The questions of law to be individually concentrated on, as urged by Counsel for
                                                                                  
        the Substituted Appellant, are;                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             Can a person who has no soil rights to a right of way prevent another
                                                                                  
             person from using the said right of way?                             
                                                                                  
             Is the abandonment or non-user of a servitude created by a notarial grant
             form a part of Sri Lankan law?                                       
                                                                                  
             Under Sri Lankan law, does a person lose their right to property due to
                                                                   Page 3 of 8    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     SC. Appeal No. 80/2011       
                                                                                  
             mere non use or abandonment?                                         
                                                                                  
             Would an act of the party constitute an overt act in order to deprive that
             party of rights obtained by Deed?                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The Substituted Appellant claims that the deceased Petitioner and his     
        predecessor in title have a right of way over the land marked Lot 'A3' in view of
                                                                                  
        the title Deed marked 'P1'.                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The Respondents deny this on the grounds that the right of way was used for a
                                                                                  
        long period of time to gain access to their properties and though the right of way
        was given to the deceased Plaintiff by Deed 'P1' he had not used the access for a
                                                                                  
        long period of time after putting up the walls separating his land from the access.
                                                                                  
        Therefore the deceased Plaintiff had abandoned his right of access by way of his
        Deed 'P1' and has no legal right to attempt to enforce a right which was  
                                                                                  
        abandoned several decades prior to the District Court case No. 1316/00/L was
                                                                                  
        instituted.                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Servitude maybe created by grant. In determining the nature and extent of real
        rights created by transfer, the provisions of the deed are decisive. The Substituted
                                                                                  
        Appellant confirms ownership of the property in question by way of Deed ‘P1’and
                                                                                  
        Plan No. 903 (marked as ‘P2’).                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The evidence in which the Respondents claim title to the said road access has
                                                                                  
        been supported by Deed No. 1796 dated 22nd May 1965 attested by L W Jansz,
        Notary Public (marked as 'V1').                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The schedule of the Deed 'V1' refers to a Plan numbered 1229 dated 15th   
                                                                                  
        December 1953 made by H W Fernando, Licensed Surveyor (marked as 'V3'). The
                                                                                  
        Respondents have not submitted this Plan as evidence. The extent of land  
        amounting to the road access in the Deed 'V1' submitted by the Respondents is
                                                                                  
        2.10 Perches, whereas the extent of land amounting to the road access in deed
                                                                                  
        ‘P1’ is 2.6 Perches. Neither party has challenged the authenticity of these deeds,
        although the Deed 'V1'submitted by the Respondents, does not contain an   
                                                                                  
        address of the Notary Public.                                             
                                                                   Page 4 of 8    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     SC. Appeal No. 80/2011       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        By way of Deed ‘P1’ it is established that the Substituted Appellants own the soil
        rights of ‘Lot A3’.                                                       
                                                                                  
        It is recognized law, as laid down in Saparamadu V Melder (2004) 3 SLR 148
                                                                                  
        decided in (1996), and affirmed in Fernando V Wickremasinghe (1998) 3 SLR 37
        that an action for the use of a servitude could be filed by a person who owns the
                                                                                  
        soil rights of the property in question.                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        It is important to note that the consideration underlying the attitude of the law is
                                                                                  
        that a servitude affects the right of the owner of a land to the free and unfettered
        use of his land; Suntangala V Appuhamy (1945) 46 NLR 137 .                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Once the Plaintiff has established soil rights, it is for the Defendant in such a
        situation to establish either an abandonment by the Plaintiff of his right or loss of
                                                                                  
        by non-user - Senathiraja V Marimuttu(1949) 53 NLR 5.                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The law is clear that a servitude or right of way acquired through notarial grant,
                                                                                  
        as distinguished from one created by verbal agreement or use through      
        prescription, could only be abandoned if such abandonment was deliberate and
                                                                                  
        intentional Nagamani V Vinayagamoorthy (1923) 24 NLR 438. This principle  
                                                                                  
        was affirmed in Paramount Investments Ltd. V Carder (1986) 2 SLR 309. It was
        further held in this case that under our law, a mere none possession of a right
                                                                                  
        does not amount to losing the said right or servitude.                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Therefore, the burden is on the Respondents to prove that the Substituted 
                                                                                  
        Appellant or her predecessor deliberately and intentionally abandoned the right of
        way. However, such deliberation or intention to abandon has not been proved.
                                                                                  
        In order for the right to be abandoned, the abandonment should be continuous,
                                                                                  
        rather than from time to time.                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        It is submitted in evidence by the Substituted Appellant that the said right of way
        was used from time to time, as access whenever there was an occasion (alms
                                                                                  
        givings) on the property owned by the Substituted Appellant, to bring in firewood
                                                                                  
        and also for repairs and construction on the building in the property marked ‘Lot
                                                                   Page 5 of 8    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     SC. Appeal No. 80/2011       
                                                                                  
        A2’.                                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        It is thus proven that the Respondents have proved neither deliberation and
                                                                                  
        intention nor continuous abandonment.                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        According to Roman-Dutch Law, non-user or abandonment of the right should be
                                                                                  
        for a third of a hundred years, i.e. 33 and 1/3rd years.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The deceased Plaintiff (the husband of the Substituted Appellant) in this case
                                                                                  
        purchased the said land by way of deed ‘P1’ dated 26th January 1976. He   
        initiated action in the District Court on or around 2nd May 2000. Therefore, the
                                                                                  
        requirement of one third of a century is not met and thus would follow that
                                                                                  
        according to the Roman Dutch Law, this does not constitute to an abandonment
        of the right.                                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        A further question arises as to whether either party is obstructing the right of
                                                                                  
        way. Particularly whether the Substituted Appellant is obstructing the right of
                                                                                  
        way enjoyed by the Respondents by constructing a gate on the boundary of the
        wall owned by the Substituted Appellant, which provides access to the right of
                                                                                  
        way.                                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        According to South African Law, the owner of the servient tenement is entitled to
                                                                                  
        protect his land, but only in such a way that the dominant owner has the free use
        of the path at all times. The position in South Africa is that the question whether
                                                                                  
        an obstruction hinders free passage is purely a question of fact to be decided in
                                                                                  
        light of the circumstances of each case. A gate across the path, which could be
        opened at any time, allows the use of the path and may be permitted. However
                                                                                  
        obstruction is different.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        In Jayasekera Hamine V Agida Hamine  (1944) 46 NLR 38 Justice Krester     
                                                                                  
        commented;                                                                
        ‘The question was not whether the dominant owner could wiggle through the 
                                                                                  
        contrivance, but whether she had the full and free use of the path. That she has
                                                                                  
        not, and the obstruction must be removed’.                                
                                                                   Page 6 of 8    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     SC. Appeal No. 80/2011       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Thus the question to be established is whether the Substituted Appellant has in
        any way obstructed the free use of the right of way by the Respondents.   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Reference may be made to the judgment in de la Harpe V Wickremaratne (1956)
        58 NLR 310 where the Court held;                                          
                                                                                  
        ‘in the case of a private right of way the ownership of the ways is in the owner of
        the soil, though such ownership does not entitle him to obstruct the way to any
                                                                                  
        substantial degree. At the same time, the owner of the right is entitled only to
                                                                                  
        reasonable user’.                                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The Court further held that;                                              
                                                                                  
        ‘Two main questions arise in the case of an obstruction to a private right of way.
        Firstly, whether the interference is substantial and, secondly, reasonable user of
                                                                                  
        the way by the owner of the right’.                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Therefore an obstruction of a private right of way is not actionable unless it is
                                                                                  
        substantial.                                                              
        For these reasons, in the instant case, it is the position of this Court that unless
                                                                                  
        the Substituted Appellant, by way of a gate on her own boundary, has obstructed
                                                                                  
        the free right to use the road way by the Respondents, there is no bar on the
        construction of such gate. However, it is stressed that there can be, at no time,
                                                                                  
        an obstruction to the free use of the right of way by the Respondents.    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Thus, the judgment of the Civil Appellate High Court dated 17th January 2011 is
                                                                                  
        hereby set aside. The judgment of the District Court of Mount Lavinia dated 13th
        December 2007  is affirmed and a permanent  injunction restraining the    
                                                                                  
        Respondents from constructing temporary and permanent structures within the
                                                                                  
        said road way is granted.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     JUDGE  OF THE SUPREME  COURT                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                   Page 7 of 8    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     SC. Appeal No. 80/2011       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Dep, PC., J.                                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        I agree.                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     JUDGE  OF THE SUPREME  COURT                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Wanasundera, PC, J.                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        I agree.                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     JUDGE  OF THE SUPREME  COURT                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                   Page 8 of 8    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  