                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                      SC. Appeal No. 93/2009        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         IN THE SUPREME  COURT  OF THE DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF          
                                     SRI LANKA                                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                      In the matter of an Application for Special   
                                                                                    
                                      Leave from the Judgment of the Provincial     
                                      High Court of the Central Province in terms   
                                                                                    
                                      of Article 128 of the Constitution read with  
                                                                                    
                                      Section 5C (1) of the Act No.54 of 2006.      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         SC. Appeal No. 93/2009       Noor Nazima alias                             
                                                                                    
         SC. HC. CA. LA. 77/2008      Noorul Naxima Hussain                         
                                                                                    
         Provincial High Court        of the No. 81/1, Katugastota Road,            
         (Civil Appellate)                                                          
         of the No. CP/HCCA/KAN       Kandy.                                        
                                                                                    
         Central Province 200/2002(F) Plaintiff-Respondent-Petitioner               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         D.C. Kandy No. 13310/P                                                     
                                                                                    
                                      -Vs.-                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                      Shantha Wimalasuriya Tilakaratne,             
                                                                                    
                                      Wevala, Harankahawa.                          
                                                                                    
                                      2nd Defendant-Appellant-Respondent            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                  1.  Noorul Parshana Hussain of No. 81/1,          
                                      Katugastota Road,                             
                                                                                    
                                      Kandy.                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                          1         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                      SC. Appeal No. 93/2009        
                                                                                    
                                 3.   Sitti Sifaya Mohideen of No. 85,              
                                      Katugastota Road,                             
                                                                                    
                                      Kandy.                                        
                                                                                    
                                      1st and 3rd Defendant-Respondents             
                                      Respondents                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         BEFORE        :    Tilakawardane, J.                                       
                                                                                    
                            Sripavan, J.                                            
                            Dep, PC., J. &                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         COUNSEL       :    Faiz Musthapha, PC, with Hemasiri Withanachchi          
                                                                                    
                            for the Plaintiff-Respondent-Petitioner.                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                            Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe, PC, with Nilantha                
                                                                                    
                            Kumarage for the 2nd Defendant-Appellant-               
                            Respondent.                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         ARGUED  ON    :    15.05.2012                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         DECIDED ON    :    07.12.2012                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         TILAKAWARDENA,  J                                                          
                                                                                    
         An application was preferred to this Court , and leave was granted on the  
                                                                                    
         following question of Law;                                                 
                                                                                    
              “Whether the description of the land given in the deed No. 6257 dated 
              22.06.1983 attested to by A.H.M Jameel Notary Public, marked as P10, is
                                                                                    
              conclusive with regard to the question that it is a defined and distinct
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                          2         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                      SC. Appeal No. 93/2009        
                                                                                    
              land?”                                                                
                                                                                    
         The Plaintiff-Respondent-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)
         preferred this Appeal against the judgment entered in case No. CP/HCCA/KAN 
                                                                                    
         Central Province 200/2002 (F) of the Provincial High Court of the Central  
                                                                                    
         Province Holden at Kandy (Civil Appellate) (hereinafter referred to as the High
         Court) dated 01.07.2008 made in favour of 2nd Defendant-Appellant-Respondent
                                                                                    
         (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent).                               
                                                                                    
         The Appellant instituted an action seeking to partition an allotment of land
                                                                                    
         depicted in Plan No. 7359 dated 07.04.1978, bearing Assessment No. 81/1, at
         Uda Mahaiyawa, Katugastota Road, Kandy. The Appellant filed civil proceedings
                                                                                    
         against the Respondent in the District Court of Kandy (hereinafter referred to as
         the District Court) and judgment was given in favour of the Appellant on   
                                                                                    
         23.10.2002 holding inter alia that the Respondent was not entitled to any rights
                                                                                    
         in the corpus in view of the findings that the Appellant, as the admitted owner of
         the disputed land, had not signed the Deed bearing No.31540 dated 14.09.1987
                                                                                    
         attested to by H. Retigahapola Notary Public (marked IP 2). This was the Deed
                                                                                    
         through which the Respondent claimed title. On appeal, by the Respondent, the
         High Court set aside the judgment of the District Court.                   
                                                                                    
         As stated above, the only question on which leave was granted pertained to 
                                                                                    
         whether the deed was conclusive with regard to defined and distinctive land.
                                                                                    
         Section 4(b) Partition Law (No. 21 of 1977) states;                        
                                                                                    
           1. In addition to the particulars required to be stated in a plaint by the Civil
              Procedure Code, every plaint presented to a, court for the purpose of 
                                                                                    
              instituting a partition action shall contain the following particulars : -
                                                                                    
         (b) a description of that land by reference to physical metes and bounds or by
                                                                                    
         reference to a sketch, map or plan which shall be appended to the plaint;  
                                                                                    
         The wording is the same as the repealed legislation concerning Partition, viz The
         Partition Ordinance. Under that legislation Section 2 required “reference to
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                          3         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                      SC. Appeal No. 93/2009        
                                                                                    
         physical metes and bounds or by reference to a sketch, map or plan which „shall
         be‟ appended to the plaint”. This section has been interpreted broadly in order to
                                                                                    
         highlight the fact that these were not the only means by which identification of
                                                                                    
         land could be satisfied. The case of Ranbanda Vs. Yatagama et. al. 3 A.C.R. 40
         held, in addition to the material expressly stated in Section 2, it not being an
                                                                                    
         exhaustive list, the judge was not precluded from using his or her discretion to
         ascertain whether the land had been identified on the facts and circumstances of
                                                                                    
         the case like the survey plan, deeds etc which had been tendered with the plaint.
                                                                                    
         Therefore despite this being the interpretation given to Section 2 of the Partition
         Ordinance, by analogy, the interpretation must be applied to Section 4(b)  
                                                                                    
         Partition Law (No 21 of 1977).                                             
                                                                                    
         Relying on this interpretation it is the finding of this Court that the description of
                                                                                    
         a land in a deed is conclusive as defined and distinctive land. Where a Court
         finds the deed to be lacking sufficient details to enable the identification of the
                                                                                    
         land it will request a plan and other details.                             
                                                                                    
         A fundamental argument of the Respondent was that the land was not an      
                                                                                    
         undivided portion and therefore the Partition Law did not apply. However on
         consideration of the documents it is evident that the rights in the corpus when
                                                                                    
         transferred to the Appellant by Deed of Transfer bearing No. 3466 dated    
         28.04.1978 attested to by Upatisa Ratnayake, Notary Public, from Siddik Moan
                                                                                    
         Ahamod Shahed Hajir was an undivided allotment. Therefore as the original  
                                                                                    
         transfer to the Appellant was of undivided land and no plan was produced in
         evidence to indicate that a clear division was made at the time of transfer by deed
                                                                                    
         P10 to the 1st Defendant it is the finding of this Court that it was an undivided
                                                                                    
         transfer of land (despite P10 referring to a sub-divided portion marked Lot 1A in
         extent of 10 perches, by A.M. Navaratne Banda Licensed Surveyor of the portion
                                                                                    
         marked Lot 1 in extent 14.50 perches effected on Plan No.1059 dated 28.08.1988
         of A.S.M. Azward, Licensed Surveyor).It is however pertinent to note that none of
                                                                                    
         the other owners who had any interest in the land, all relatives of the Appellant,
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                          4         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                      SC. Appeal No. 93/2009        
                                                                                    
         objected in any way to this action, nor did they seek to intervene.        
                                                                                    
         Furthermore it is the opinion of this Court that the District Court was correct in
         its findings that the Gift of Transfer to the 1st Defendant was undivided land on
                                                                                    
         the basis of there being no physical demarcation of the 10 perches conveyed. As
                                                                                    
         submitted by the Appellant according to Gratien J. observed at p.p.61,     
                                                                                    
              “ were it necessary to lay down any general principal for the purpose of
              deciding the effect of a deed whereby an owner of land purports to convey
                                                                                    
              to someone a share in it, I would say where the words of description  
                                                                                    
              contained in the grant are sufficiently clear with reference to extent locality
              and other relevant matters to permit of an exact demarcation of all the
                                                                                    
              boundaries of what has been conveyed, then the grant is of a defined  
              allotment. If however, the language is insufficient to permit such a  
                                                                                    
              demarcation, the grant must be interpreted as conveying only an       
                                                                                    
              undivided share in the larger land”.                                  
                                                                                    
         This Court agrees with this reasoning on the basis that Deed P10 failed to 
         provide clear language indicating the boundaries of the gifted 10 perches. 
                                                                                    
         Further prejudice was caused to the Appellant as she was precluded from    
                                                                                    
         defending her position at first instance as the question in hand, whether the land
         was divided or undivided, was not in fact disputed at first instance. This Court
                                                                                    
         wishes to draw attention to the case of Jayawickrama Vs. Silva 76 NLR 427, 
                                                                                    
         the Learned Judge stated that;                                             
                                                                                    
         a pure question of law can be raised in appeal for the first time, but if it is a mixed
         question of fact and law it cannot be done.                                
                                                                                    
         The case of Leechman Co Ltd. Vs. Rangalle Consolidated Ltd. (1981) (2) SLR.
                                                                                    
         373 espouses the same principle in inverse terms, with the Learned Judge   
                                                                                    
         stating;                                                                   
                                                                                    
         a pure question of law which does not require the ascertainment of new facts can
         be raised for the first time in appeal.                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                          5         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                      SC. Appeal No. 93/2009        
                                                                                    
         The issue whether the corpus consisted of two distinct and divided portions of
         land making it amenable to a partition case, was not a matter on which the 
                                                                                    
         parties were at variance and hence the case presented to the District Court was
                                                                                    
         confined to considering the land as undivided. It is the opinion of this Court that
         the District Judge rightly considered the land to be undivided.            
                                                                                    
         In relation to Section 10 of the Prescription Ordinance which states as follows;
                                                                                    
         No action shall be maintainable in respect of any cause of action not hearing
                                                                                    
         before expressly provided for or expressly exempted from the operation of this
                                                                                    
         ordinance, unless the same shall be commences within 3 years from the time when
         such cause of action shall have accrued.                                   
                                                                                    
         It is this Court's finding that the Appellant acted in time due to the fact that the
                                                                                    
         Court interprets the 3 year period as commencing in 1994 and as the cause of
                                                                                    
         action against the Respondent arose in 1994, only after the criminal investigation
         against Kaleel proved futile, time had not run out.                        
                                                                                    
         Therefore, it is the opinion of the Court that the Respondent is unable to rely on
                                                                                    
         Section 10 of the Prescription Ordinance.                                  
                                                                                    
         It was argued that the deed of transfer IP 2, under which the alleged transfer of
                                                                                    
         land from the Appellant to Mohomad Kaleel is purported to have occurred, was a
         valid deed of transfer. The Respondent argues that the Appellant failed to prove
                                                                                    
         the signatures on the deed to be hers, despite the Examiner of Questioned  
         Documents (here in after referred to as EQD) report indicating the signature on
                                                                                    
         the deed IP 2 (marked P2) not matching the specimen signatures (P3 & P5) of the
                                                                                    
         Appellant . Further the EQD, C.D. Kalupahana, gave evidence on the signatures
         stating that P3 & P5 did not correspond with P2 and could not have been by the
                                                                                    
         same person. Therefore it is the finding of this court that on the balance of
                                                                                    
         probability that the signature on the Deed P2 was not of the Appellant and that
         purported the deed was void and could not therefore transfer any soil rights.
                                                                                    
         The 2nd Defendant bought the disputed property, from Kaleel who had no soil
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                          6         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                      SC. Appeal No. 93/2009        
                                                                                    
         rights to the property. The foundation of his action was rooted on the said Deed
         P2, and he therefore had no locus standii, or no right to bring an action or to be
                                                                                    
         heard in an action under the Partition law, especially in view of section 2 of the
                                                                                    
         Partition Act. Nothing in this dispute could either injuriously or adversely affect
         the said 2nd Defendant, and even the dismissal of the action would not benefit
                                                                                    
         him as he had no soil rights whatsoever.                                   
                                                                                    
         Indeed it is in the interest of the State to grant the owners of allotments of land
                                                                                    
         their unfettered rights by Partition or any such actions which clear their title to
         the land and which would permit them to obtain the commercial benefit of the
                                                                                    
         land.                                                                      
                                                                                    
         This Court would like to highlight that the 2nd Defendant is a victim of the
         current registration system in Sri Lanka as the facts make it clear that he has
                                                                                    
         taken all reasonable steps to ensure that he purchased land with a clear title. It
                                                                                    
         is noted from evidence that the Notary in fact recommended that he purchase
         this land despite failing to make a thorough investigation into the identity of the
                                                                                    
         seller; in fact it was stated that he did not know the seller. It is of course not
                                                                                    
         mandatory that the Notary knows the seller before completing a deed of transfer
         or any other such transaction, however it is mandatory that the Notary acts with
                                                                                    
         due diligence to protect the interest of his clients. The present title registration
         system in Sri Lanka does not facilitate such a process of due diligence and
                                                                                    
         should be amended to avoid injustice caused to genuine purchasers of land. An
                                                                                    
         identity search as proposed by the amendment of the Law along with the title
         search, should be adopted and effectively implemented and in this way, fraud as
                                                                                    
         seen in this case can be avoided. The application of law should at all time
                                                                                    
         facilitate the due process of justice and the current system creates loopholes for
         fraudsters to take advantage of the system and therefore cause injustice to
                                                                                    
         citizens.                                                                  
                                                                                    
         For the reasons set out above it is the finding of this Court that the Appellant's
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                          7         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                      SC. Appeal No. 93/2009        
                                                                                    
         rights in the corpus has been established to have arisen as a result of a clean
         pedigree and therefore she is the rightful owner of the undivided land. For the
                                                                                    
         reasons highlighted judgment of the High Court dated 01.07.2008 is set aside.
                                                                                    
         The appeal is allowed and the Judgment of the District Court of 23.10.2002 is
         affirmed. No Costs.                                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                           JUDGE  OF THE SUPREME  COURT             
         Sripavan, J.                                                               
                                                                                    
         I agree.                                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                           JUDGE  OF THE SUPREME  COURT             
                                                                                    
         Dep, PC, J.                                                                
                                                                                    
         I agree.                                                                   
                                                                                    
                                           JUDGE  OF THE SUPREME  COURT             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                          8         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    