                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
               IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                                                                    
                                           In the matter of an Application for Special Leave
                                           to Appeal against the Judgment of the Court of
                                           Appeal under and in terms of Article 128 (2) of
                                           the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
                                           Republic of Sri Lanka.                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                           Hon. Attorney General,                   
                                           Attorney General’s Department,           
                                           Colombo 12.                              
                                                                                    
                                           PETITIONER - APPELLANT                   
                                                                                    
          S.C. Appeal No. 67/2013         -VS-                                      
                                                                                    
          S.C. Spl. L.A. Application No.24/2013                                     
          C.A. (Writ) Application No. 411/2012 Dr.Upatissa Atapattu Bandaranayake Wasala
                                           Mudiyanse Ralahamilage Shirani Anshumala 
                                           Bandaranayake,                           
                                           Residence of the Chief Justice of Sri Lanka,
                                           129, Wijerama Mawatha,                   
                                           Colombo 07.                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                           Presently at: No. 170, Lake Drive, Colombo 08.
                                                                                    
                                           PETITIONER - RESPONDENT                  
                                                                                    
                                           01. Hon. Chamal Rajapakse,               
                                           Speaker of Parliament,                   
                                           Parliament of Sri Lanka,                 
                                           Sri Jayawardenapura, Kotte.              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                           02. Hon. Anura Priyadarshana Yapa,       
                                           Eriyagolla.                              
                                           Yakwilla.                                
                                                                                    
                                           03. Hon. Nimal Siripala De Silva,        
                                           93/20, Elvitigala Mawatha,               
                                                                                    
                                           Colombo 08.                              
                                                                                    
                                           04. Hon. A.D. Susil Premajayantha,       
                                           123/1, Station Road,                     
                                           Gangodawila,                             
                                           Nugegoda.                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          1                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                           05. Hon. Rajitha Senaratne,              
                                           CD 85, Gregory’s Road,                   
                                           Colombo 07.                              
                                                                                    
                                           06. Hon. Wimal Weerawansa,               
                                           18, Rodney Place,                        
                                           Cotta Road,                              
                                                                                    
                                           Colombo 08.                              
                                                                                    
                                           07. Hon. Dilan Perera,                   
                                           30, Bandaranayake Mawatha,               
                                            Badulla.                                
                                                                                    
                                           08. Hon. Neomal Perera,                  
                                           3/3, Rockwood Place,                     
                                                                                    
                                           Colombo 07.                              
                                                                                    
                                           09. Hon. Lakshman Kiriella,              
                                           121/1, Pahalawela Road,                  
                                           Palawatta,                               
                                           Battaramulla.                            
                                                                                    
                                           10. Hon. John Amaratunga,                
                                                                                    
                                           88, Negambo Road,                        
                                           Kandana.                                 
                                                                                    
                                           11. Hon. Rajav Arothiam Sampathan,       
                                           2D, Summit Flats,                        
                                           Keppetipola Road,                        
                                           Colombo 05.                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                           12. Hon. Vijitha Herath,                 
                                           44/3, Medawaththa Road,                  
                                           Mudungoda,                               
                                           Miriswatta,                              
                                           Gampaha.                                 
                                                                                    
                                           13. Hon. W.B.D. Dassanayake,             
                                                                                    
                                           Secretary General of Parliament,         
                                           Parliament Secretariat,                  
                                           Parliament of Sri Lanka,                 
                                           Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte.               
                                                                                    
                                           RESPONDENT -RESPONDENTS                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          2                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Before         :         Hon. S. Marsoof, PC., J,                         
                                   Hon. P.A. Ratnayake, PC., J,                     
                                   Hon. S. Hettige, PC., J,                         
                                   Hon. E. Wanasundera, PC., J and                  
                                   Hon. R. Marasingha, J.                           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Counsel        :         Palitha Fernando, Attorney General with A. Gnanathasan PC,
                                   Additional Solicitor General,                    
                                   W.J.G. Fernando DSG, S. Fernando DSG, Sanjay Rajaratnam
                                   DSG, Dilip Nawaz DSG, Janak De Silva DSG, Nerin Pulle SSC
                                   and Manohara Jayasinghe SC instructed by State Attorney
                                   Sujatha Pieris for the Petitioner-Appellant.     
                                                                                    
                                   Petitioner-Respondent and 1st to 10th and 13th Respondent-
                                                                                    
                                   Respondents absent and unrepresented.            
                                                                                    
                                   M.A. Sumanthiran with Viran Corea and Niren Anketell for
                                   the 11th Respondent-Respondent.                  
                                                                                    
                                   J.C. Welimuna with Sunil Watagala, Mewan Kiriella Bandara
                                   and Senura Abeywardhena for the 12th Respondent- 
                                   Respondent.                                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Argued on      :         10.6.2013                                        
                                                                                    
          Written Submissions :    14.6.2013                                        
                                                                                    
          Decided on     :         28.6.2013                                        
                                                                                    
          SALEEM MARSOOF J.                                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          This order pertains to certain preliminary objections taken up on behalf of the 11th and 12th
          Respondent-Respondents (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the “11th and 12th Respondents”)
          in regard to the maintainability of this application.                     
                                                                                    
          Basic Facts                                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          By way of introduction, it may be useful to set out in outline the basic facts that give rise to the
          aforesaid objections. The President of Sri Lanka has made order on 12th January, 2013 in terms of
          Article 107(2) of the Constitution of Sri Lanka removing the Petitioner-Respondent from the post
          of Chief Justice pursuant to a resolution for her impeachment being passed by Parliament and the
          President addressing Parliament as contemplated by Article 107 of the Constitution. Prior to this
          development, the Petitioner-Respondent had filed an application dated 19th December 2012 in
          the Court of Appeal seeking inter alia a writ in the nature of certiorari quashing the report of the
                                                                                    
                                          3                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Parliamentary Select Committee that found her guilty of certain charges of misbehaviour and a
          writ of prohibition against the 1st Respondent-Respondent and/or the 2nd to 13th Respondent-
          Respondents (hereinafter sometimes collectively referred to as the “Respondent- Respondents”)
          from taking any further steps pursuant to the said report. The Court of Appeal by its Judgement
          dated 7th January 2013, issued a writ of certiorari quashing the said findings and also a writ of
          prohibition on the Speaker and the Parliamentary Select Committee consisting of the 2nd to 12th
          Respondent-Respondents restraining them from proceeding to implement the motion of
                                                                                    
          impeachment. The Petitioner-Appellant, the incumbent Attorney General of Sri Lanka, who had
          assisted the Court of Appeal on its invitation as amicus Curiae, sought special leave to appeal
          form this Court against the said decision of the Court of Appeal, and this Court on 30th April 2013
          granted special leave to appeal on two substantive questions of law on the basis that they raise
          question of public or general importance.                                 
                                                                                    
          For the purposes of this order it is material to note that after the application for special leave to
          appeal dated 15th February 2013 was lodged in the Registry of this Court, and notice was
                                                                                    
          dispatched on the Petitioner-Respondent as well as the other Respondent-Respondents, by her
          motion dated 16th March 2013, the Petitioner-Respondent acknowledged receipt of notice and
          indicated that the said Respondent will not participate in these proceedings for the reasons set
          out in the said motion. Furthermore, by 30th April 2013 none of the notices issued on the
          Respondents-Respondents other than the notice dispatched on the 11th Respondent-Respondent
          (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the “11th Respondent”) had been returned undelivered.
          The envelope in which the notice issued on the said 11th Respondent had been dispatched did not
          bear any endorsement relating to the return of the notice undelivered. When the application of
                                                                                    
          the Petitioner-Appellant for special leave to appeal was supported before this Court on 30th April
          2013, the Petitioner-Respondent as well as the Respondent-Respondents were absent and
          unrepresented. The Court heard the Petitioner-Appellant and granted special leave to appeal on
          the following two substantive questions of law on the basis that they raise question of public or
          general importance:                                                       
                                                                                    
            1) Did the Court of Appeal err in holding that the writ jurisdiction of that Court embodied in
               Article 140 of the Constitution extends to proceedings of Parliament or a Committee of
                                                                                    
               Parliament?                                                          
                                                                                    
            2) Did the Court of Appeal err in holding that the words “any Court of first instance or
               tribunal or other institution or any other person” in Article 140 of the Constitution
               extends to the Parliament or a Committee of Parliament?              
                                                                                    
          Court also directed that all parties should file their written submissions within four weeks, and
                                                                                    
          issued notice on the Petitioner-Respondent as well as the Respondent-Respondents that the
          appeal has been fixed for hearing on 29th May 2013. However, by their respective motions dated
          21st May 2013 and 22nd May 2013, the 11th and 12th Respondents informed Court that they could
          not file caveat or appear in Court on 30th April 2013 for the purpose of objecting to the grant of
          special leave to appeal against the Judgement of the Court of Appeal as they had not been served
          with any notice pursuant to the filing of the application for special leave to appeal by the
          Petitioner-Appellant. In the said motions they alleged that the Petitioner-Appellant has failed to
                                                                                    
                                          4                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          comply with several of the mandatory provisions of Rule 8 of the Supreme Court Rules, 1990, and
          moved that Court be “pleased to set aside the said order granting special leave to appeal” and
          cause the notice of the same to be served on the 11th and 12th Respondents to enable them to
          file caveat and be “heard in opposition to the grant of special leave to appeal”.
                                                                                    
          The aforesaid motions were considered by this Court on 29th May 2013. The Court examined the
          contents of the aforesaid motions filed by the 11th and 12th Respondents, the affidavit of the 12th
                                                                                    
          Respondent dated 22nd May 2013, all relevant motions filed by all parties and all journal entries
          contained in the Supreme Court docket, and held that there has been substantial compliance by
          the Petitioner-Appellant of the Supreme Court Rules, 1990, but in the interests of justice, the 11th
          and 12th Respondent-Respondents may be permitted “an opportunity to participate in the
          proceedings for the grant of special leave to appeal.” Court, accordingly set aside its own order
          granting special leave to appeal “only with respect to the 11th and 12th Respondents”. The
          following paragraphs of the order of Court dated 29th May 2013 clarifies the essence of its ruling
          on the submissions made on behalf of the Petitioner-Appellant as well as the 11th and 12th
                                                                                    
          Respondents on that date:                                                 
                                                                                    
               “Learned Counsel for 11th and 12th Respondents have agreed to file caveat within one
               week from today on behalf of these Respondents, and the question of Special Leave to
               Appeal with respect to these Respondents will be considered before the same Bench on
               10.6.2013. The order granting Special Leave to Appeal against the other Respondents as
               well as against the Petitioner-Respondent will stand.                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
               Support application for Special Leave to Appeal with respect to 11th and 12th Respondents
               on 10.6.2013 before the same Bench.                                  
                                                                                    
               As far as the appeal is concerned, since Special Leave to Appeal had already been granted
               against the Petitioner-Respondent as well as the other Respondents, the date for hearing
               of the appeal will be determined on 10.6.2013. Registrar is directed to have this matter
               listed before the same Bench (namely Hon. Marsoof, PC.J, Hon. Ratnayake, PC.J, Hon.
               Hettige, PC.J, Hon. Wanasundera, PC.J, and Hon. Marasinghe,J) on 10.6.2013 for support”.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Accordingly, on 10th June 2013, the Hon. Attorney-General, who was the Petitioner-Appellant
          made submissions afresh in support of his application for special leave to appeal, and learned
          Counsel for the 11th and 12th Respondents were heard in opposition to the grant of special leave
          to appeal. Submissions were made by Learned Counsel for the 11th and 12th Respondents as well
          as the learned Attorney-General in regard to the following preliminary objections to the
          application seeking special leave to appeal against the judgment of the Court of Appeal dated 7th
                                                                                    
          January 2013 sought to be impugned:                                       
                                                                                    
              1) The Petitioner-Appellant has failed to comply with Rule 8 of the Supreme Court Rules;
              2) The Petitioner-Appellant cannot represent State interests and make an appeal against
                the judgment which the State has failed to comply with;             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          5                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
              3) The Petitioner-Appellant is not entitled to seek to appeal against a judgment of the Court
                of Appeal in a case in which he was not a party and was invited by Court to assist court
                as amicus curiae;                                                   
              4) The application of the Petitioner-Appellant is an abuse of the process of Court and is
                futile; and                                                         
              5) The application of the Petitioner-Appellant has not been properly made as he has failed
                to file an affidavit in support of his petition filed in this case. 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            1) Failure to comply with Rule 8                                        
                                                                                    
          Although in the motions dated 21st and 22nd May 2013 respectively filed by the 11th and 12th
          Respondent-Respondents and the Statement of Objection filed by the 11th Respondent-
          Respondent dated 7th June 2013, a failure to comply with certain mandatory provisions of Rule 8
          of the Supreme Court Rules, 1990 had in general been alleged, in the course of oral submissions
          learned Counsel who appeared for the said Respondents stressed in particular the alleged non-
                                                                                    
          compliance by the Petitioner-Appellant of Rule 8(3) of the said Supreme Court Rules, which is
          quoted below in full:                                                     
                                                                                    
              “(3) The petitioner shall tender with his application such number of notices as is required for
              service on the respondents and himself together with such number of copies of the
              documents referred to in sub-rule (1) of this rule as is required for service on the
              respondents. The petitioner shall enter in such notices the names and addresses of the
              parties, and the name, address for service and telephone number of his instructing
                                                                                    
              Attorney-at-law, if any, and the name, address and telephone number, if any, of the
              attorney-at-law, if any, who has been retained to appear for him at the hearing of the
              application, and shall tender the required number of stamped addressed envelopes for the
              service of notice on the respondents by registered post. The petitioner shall forthwith
              notify the Registrar of any change in such particulars.”(Emphasis added)
                                                                                    
          The gravamen of the submissions of learned Counsel for the 11th and 12th Respondents in regard
          to the allegation of non-compliance with Rule 8(3) was that the Petitioner-Appellant had not
                                                                                    
          tendered to Court with his application for special leave to appeal, sufficient number of notices as
          is required for service on the respondents and himself together with such number of copies of
          the documents referred to in sub-rule (1) of this rule as is required for service on the
          respondents. Rule 8(1) requires the Registrar of the Court to “forthwith give notice, by registered
          post, of such application to each of the respondents” The said sub-rule also requires that “a copy
          of the petition, a copy of the judgment against which the application for special leave to appeal is
          preferred, and copies of affidavits and annexures filed therewith” to be attached to the notice to
                                                                                    
          be issued by the Registrar. Learned Counsel for the said Respondents submitted, relying on a long
          line of decisions of this Court including those in A.H.M. Fowzie & Others v. Vehicles Lanka (Pvt)
          Ltd. (2008) BLR 127 and Tissa Attanayake v The Commissioner General of Election and Others (S.C.
          (Spl.) L.A. No. 55/2011 C.A. Writ Application No. 155/2011-SC Minutes dated 21.07.2011), that
          the failure to comply with Rule 8 of the Supreme Court Rules is fatal to the right of a Petitioner to
          prosecute his application, and accordingly warrants dismissal in limine.  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          6                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          In relation to the factual aspects of the case, learned Counsel for the 11th and 12th Respondents
          have invited attention to certain motions filed on behalf of the Petitioner-Appellant and a minute
          dated 26th February 2013 that show that initially the notices were dispatched only to the
          Petitioner-Respondent and the 11th and 12th Respondents, and that notices on the 1st to 10th and
          13th Respondents had only been dispatched by the Registry on 22nd March 2013. From these
          facts, learned Counsel for the 11th and 12th Respondents invited Court to infer that the Petitioner-
          Appellant had failed to tender to Court along with his application for special leave to appeal, a
                                                                                    
          sufficient number of notices and documents as required by Rule 8(1) of the Supreme Court Rules,
          and duly stamped addressed envelopes.                                     
                                                                                    
          However, in this context this Court cannot ignore the minute of the Registrar of this Court
          addressed to the Listing Judge dated 18th February 2013 and the Listing Judge’s direction dated
          20th February 2012, which are reproduced below:                           
                                                                                    
              “18/02/13                                                             
                                                                                    
                   Hon. Wanasundera PCJ.                                            
              AAL for the Petitioner tendered motion dated 15/2/13 with proxy, petition affidavit and
              documents and motion that this application be filed to be mentioned on
              02, 03 or 04 April 2013.                                              
              Subt. for Your Ladyship’s directions please.                          
              Registrar, Supreme Court                                              
                                                                                    
              R/SC                                                                  
                                                                                    
              List for ‘support’ on 4/4/2013 and notice to others through the Registry.
                                   Ew                                               
                                   20/2/13”                                         
                                                                                    
          The case was accordingly listed for support on 4th April 2013, on which date the case was re-fixed
          for support on 30th April 2013.                                           
                                                                                    
          In this connection, the learned Attorney-General has submitted that the question of compliance
                                                                                    
          with Rules of Court is no more a live issue as this Court has, after a perusal of the record in these
          proceedings, made order on 29th May 2013 that “Court is of the opinion that there is substantial
          compliance with the rules of Court”. He further submitted that the journal entries in this regard
          bear testimony to the fact that such notices and documents were in fact lodged in the Registry of
          this Court and that the said notices were in fact sent by the Registrar of the Court to all the
          Respondents.                                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Although It is clear from the journal entries that the Petitioner-Appellant has fully complied with
          Rule 8(3) of the Supreme Court Rules and tendered to Court sufficient number of notices,
          documents and stamped addressed envelopes for despatch of notice along with his application
          for special leave to appeal, as already noted, notices were in fact despatched in two instalments,
          namely, on 26th February 2013 to the Petitioner-Respondent and the 11th and 12th Respondents
          who were the only parties who participated in the proceedings in the Court of Appeal in this case,
          and subsequently on 25th March 2013 to the other Respondents. However, none of these
                                                                                    
                                          7                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          respondents have responded to the notices of this Court to date, and it may be inferred that the
          notices have been duly served. In all the circumstances, no prejudice what so ever has been
          caused to any of the parties in this case by reason of any non-compliance with Rule 8.
                                                                                    
          I also note that special leave to appeal had been granted in this case against the Petitioner-
          Respondent as well as the Respondent-Respondents on 30th April 2013, and the said order was
          set aside by the order of this Court dated 29th May 2013, only to the limited extent of enabling
                                                                                    
          the 11th and 12th Respondents to file caveat and to be heard in opposition to the grant of special
          leave to appeal. As far as these Respondents were concerned, notice was despatched on them as
          early as on 26th February 2013, and they have been heard fully in opposition to the grant of
          special leave to appeal. In any event, as this Court was constrained to observe in its recent
          decision in Sumith Ediriwickrama, Competent Authority, Pugoda Textiles Lanka Ltd. and Another
          v. W.A.Richard Ratnasiri and Others, SC Appeal No. 85/2004 (SC Minutes dated 22.2.2013), this
          Court is bound to highlight and apply in the special circumstances of a case “the objective of
          achieving smooth functioning of this Court”, and in all the circumstances of this case this
                                                                                    
          preliminary objection has to be overruled.                                
                                                                                    
            2) Comply and Complain                                                  
                                                                                    
          Another preliminary objection taken up on behalf of the 11th and 12th Respondents is that since
          the legislative and executive arms of government have failed to comply with the impugned
          judgment of the Court of Appeal, the Attorney-General is not entitled to seek to have the
          judgment of the Appeal Court set aside or varied by way of appeal. It was submitted by learned
                                                                                    
          Counsel for these Respondents that the Attorney-General was invoking the appellate jurisdiction
          of this Court as an “effective extension” of the executive arm of government, which has failed to
          honour and give effect to the decision of the Court of Appeal dated 7th January 2013. They
          submitted that the Petitioner-Appellant should first comply with the decision of the Court of
          Appeal and then complain.                                                 
                                                                                    
          The learned Attorney-General has submitted that the objection taken up by the said Respondents
          is completely misconceived, given that the Attorney-General did not represent any of the
                                                                                    
          Respondents in Court of Appeal in this case. Learned Attorney-General pointed out that at no
          stage in the pleadings or in the submissions on behalf of the said Respondents was it suggested
          that the Petitioner-Appellant is seeking to represent the interests of Parliament or any of its
          committees or members, and submitted that he had decided to invoke the jurisdiction of this
          Court consistent with the dictates of his conscience to have a grave error committed by the
          Court of Appeal by seeking to extend its writ to Parliament, thereby eroding the sovereignty of
          the People. This Court has already granted special leave to appeal on the specific question that
          arises from the submissions made before this Court by the learned Attorney-General and learned
                                                                                    
          Counsel for the 11th and 12th Respondents, namely whether the Court of Appeal erred in holding
          that the writ jurisdiction of that Court embodied in Article 140 of the Constitution extends to
          proceedings of Parliament or a Committee of Parliament on the basis that the words “any Court
          of first instance or tribunal or other institution or any other person” in the said constitutional
          provision extend to the Parliament or a Committee thereof. Hence, in my view, it is not necessary
          at this stage for the Court to decide these questions, and it would suffice for me to hold that the
                                                                                    
                                          8                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          mere fact that the legislative and executive arms of government have not taken cognizance of or
          complied with the judgment of the Court of Appeal, does not deprive the Chief Law Officer of the
          State from exercising his constitutional rights under Article 128(2) of the Constitution to seek to
          rectify, what could turn out to be, a grave error of law. In my view, this preliminary objection too
          has to be overruled.                                                      
                                                                                    
            3) Amicus Curiae who is not a Party not entitled to Appeal              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          The third preliminary objection taken up by the 11th and 12th Respondents is that the Petitioner-
          Appellant in this case, in his capacity as the Attorney General, has no standing or legal authority
          whatsoever in law to invoke the appellate jurisdiction of this Court in terms of Article 128(2) of
          the Constitution. Learned Counsel for the said Respondents have stressed that the Attorney-
          General was not a party to CA Writ application 411/2012 in which the impugned judgment dated
          7th January 2013 was pronounced, and had only participated in those proceedings on an
          invitation from the Court of Appeal to assist Court as amicus curiae. They submitted that the
                                                                                    
          Court of Appeal was compelled to seek the assistance of the Attorney-General in this manner as
          fundamental questions of public or general importance arose in the case, and the said Court
          considered that the Attorney-General’s participation as amicus curiae will assist the Court in
          arriving at its finding, particularly in the context that none of the Respondent-Respondents other
          than the 11th and 12th Respondents had appeared before that Court in response to its notice.
                                                                                    
          Leaned Counsel for the 11th Respondents invited the attention of this Court to decisions such as
          Chandrasena v. De Silva 63 NLR 143 and Abeysundere v Abeysundere (1998) 1 SLR 185 in which
                                                                                    
          eminent Counsel had been invited by Court to assist as amicus curiae, and submitted that it
          would have been unimaginable for such a Counsel to lodge an appeal where the Court did not
          adopt the views of the amicus curiae in its own decision. Learned Counsel for the 12th
          Respondent submitted that the Attorney General has misrepresented that he is a “party noticed”,
          and argued that the Attorney General cannot be both a party noticed and amicus at the same
          time. He pointed out that the Court of Appeal in Land Reform Commission v. Grand Central Ltd
          [1981] (2) SLR 147, had censured the Attorney-General when he acted contrary to tradition,
          prudence and propriety. He citing decisions such as Moten v. Bricklayers, Masons & Plasterers
                                                                                    
          INT’L Union of America., 543 F.2d 224, 227 (D.C. Cir. 1976), that it would be most improper for an
          amicus curiae to seek to appeal against a decision made by a court with his assistance.
                                                                                    
          Focusing on the structure and language of Article 128 of the Constitution, learned Counsel for the
          11th and 12th Respondents sought to highlight the concept of “aggrieved party” embodied in
          Article 128(1) of the Constitution, while the learned Attorney-General adopted an altogether
          different approach and contended that Article 128(2) cannot be restrictively interpreted. In order
                                                                                    
          to appreciate the contentions of learned Counsel, it is necessary to consider the first two sub-
          articles of Articles 128, which are for convenience reproduced below:     
                                                                                    
              “(1) An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any final order, judgement, decree or
              sentence of the Court of Appeal in any mater or proceedings, whether civil or criminal,
              which involves a substantial question of law, if the Court of Appeal grants leave to appeal to
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          9                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
              the Supreme Court ex mero motu or at the instance of any aggrieved party to such matter
              or proceedings.                                                       
                                                                                    
              (2) the Supreme Court may, in its discretion, grant special leave to appeal to the Supreme
              Court from any final or interlocutory order, judgement, decree or sentence made by the
              Court of Appeal in any matter or proceedings, whether civil or criminal, where the Court of
              Appeal has refused to grant leave to appeal to the Supreme Court, or where in the opinion
                                                                                    
              of the Supreme Court, the case or matter is fit for review by the Supreme Court:
                                                                                    
              Provided that the Supreme Court shall grant leave to appeal in every mater of proceedings
              in which it is satisfied that the question to be decided is of public or general importance.
              (Emphasis added)                                                      
                                                                                    
          learned Counsel for the 11th and 12th Respondents submitted that Article 128 of the Constitution
          must be read as a whole, and stressed that Article 128(2) cannot be read in isolation or
                                                                                    
          independently from Article 128(1) which confined the right to seek leave to appeal from a
          decision of the Court of Appeal to an “aggrieved party to such matter or proceedings”. They
          argued that a person who was not a party to a case or proceeding in the Court of Appeal, such as
          an amicus curiae, is not entitled in law to prefer an appeal against a judgement of the Court of
          Appeal, as the right to appeal is vested only on an “aggrieved party” under the first two sub-
          articles of Article 128 of the Constitution. For this proposition, they sought to rely on the decision
          of this Court in Mendis v. Dublin De Silva 1990 2 SLR 249, in which they contended that this Court
          had held that in terms Article 128 of the Constitution, an appeal lies to the Supreme Court at the
                                                                                    
          instance of an aggrieved party, that is a person “against whom a decision has been pronounced
          which wrongly deprived him of something or wrongly affected his title to something.” They
          further contended that the Attorney General has no mandate, authority or inherent power to
          seek to deny parties to a case of the benefit of a judgement that has not been challenged by any
          of them. They submitted that any other interpretation of Article 128 will open the flood gates for
          the State to intervene in private litigation through the office of Attorney-General, which is now
          directly vested under the President of Sri Lanka.                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          In response to these submissions, the learned Attorney-General submitted that there is no
          impediment for an appeal to be preferred in terms of Article 128(2) of the Constitution by a
          person who had assisted Court as amicus curiae. Citing the decision of this Court in Bandaranaike
          v. Jagathsena (1984) 2 SLR 397, he submitted that the concept of “aggrieved party” was confined
          in its application to Article 128(1) of the Constitution, and argued that Article 128(2) was much
          wider in several respects. He further submitted that in his capacity of the Chief Law Officer of the
          State, he was entitled to seek leave to appeal from a decision of the Court of Appeal where the
                                                                                    
          appeal involves a matter of public or general importance. He emphasised that under the proviso
          to Article 128(2) of the Constitution, this Court is bound to grant leave to appeal on all matters in
          “every mater of proceedings in which it is satisfied that the question to be decided is of public or
          general importance.”                                                      
                                                                                    
          Having carefully examined all these submissions, it is necessary to state at the outset that a
          person, whether he or she be an eminent counsel or not, who was called upon by Court to assist
                                                                                    
                                          10                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          as amicus curiae in any particular case or matter, cannot qua amicus curiae seek to appeal or
          move for special leave to appeal from any order or judgment that may thereafter be pronounced
          by Court. The principle is well illustrated by the United States Court of Appeals, District of
          Colombia Circuit decision of Moten v. Bricklayers, Masons & Plasterers, 543 F.2d 224
          (D.C.Cir.1976), cited by learned Counsel for the for the 11th Respondent in this case, in which an
          employers' association appeared at hearings on a proposed settlement of the suit, but never
          sought to become a party. The Court of Appeals held that in these circumstances, the employers’
                                                                                    
          association stands "in a relationship analogous to that of amicus curiae .... As amicus curiae may
          not appeal from a final judgment, the appeal ... must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction."(at
          page 227).                                                                
                                                                                    
          This Court cannot ignore the multifarious functions and the immense responsibility vested in the
          Attorney-General by the Constitution and other laws, which were subjected to minute
          examination by Ranasinghe J. in Land Reform Commission v. Grand Central Ltd [1981] (2) SLR 147
          (CA). The sentiments expressed by the Court of Appeal in that case were echoed by a Five Judge
                                                                                    
          Bench of the Supreme Court headed by Neville Samarakoon CJ., who noted in the course of his
          judgment in Land Reform Commission v. Grand Central Limited [1981] (1) SLR 250 (SC) at page
          261 that-                                                                 
                                                                                    
              “The Attorney-General of this country is the leader of the Bar and the highest Legal Officer
              of the State. As Attorney-General he has a duty to Court, to the State and to the subject to
              be wholly detached, wholly independent and to act impartially with the sole object of
              establishing the truth. It is for that reason that all Courts in this Island request the
                                                                                    
              appearance of the Attorney General as amicus curiae when the Court requires assistance,
              which assistance has in the past been readily given. That image will certainly be tarnished if
              he takes part in private litigation arising out of private disputes.” 
                                                                                    
          The learned Attorney-General has asserted that he is before this Court in his capacity as the Chief
          Legal Officer of the State seeking to discharge a duty vested in him under Article 128(2) of the
          Constitution seeking to remedy grave errors committed by the Court of Appeal on matters of
          extreme public and general importance. He has submitted that the mere circumstance that he
                                                                                    
          had been invited by the Court of Appeal to assist Court in regard to these matters, does not, and
          cannot take away his exclusive duties as the Chief Legal Officer of the State, which he submits he
          is seeking to exercise in the highest traditions of his office.           
                                                                                    
          The question for this Court in this context is a simple one. Should the ambit of Article 128(2) of
          the Constitution be construed restrictively in the light of the concept of “aggrieved party” found
          in Article 128(1), or should Article 128(2) be interpreted as a provision distinct and independent
                                                                                    
          from Article 128(1) to extend the right to invoke the appellate jurisdiction of this Court to a
          broader category of persons? Submissions were made by learned Counsel as to whether Article
          128(2) is separated from Article 128(1) by a full stop or a semi-colon, and as to whether the
          Sinhalese version of the Constitution should prevail over the Tamil or English versions where
          there is any inconsistency. This Court is vested with the exclusive power of interpreting the
          Constitution, and has not hesitated in extreme cases such as Weragama v Eksath Lanka Wathu
          Kamkaru Samithiya and Others, (1994) I SLR 293, to replace a semi-colon with a full stop to
                                                                                    
                                          11                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          overcome an “obvious error”. What is most important is to give effect to the manifest intention
          of the law makers in the discharge of their legislative functions, and to me, as far as the question
          arising in this appeal is concerned, there can be no ambiguity or uncertainly in regard to the
          ambit of Article 128(2), which can be easily be gathered from its very provisions.
                                                                                    
          Article 128(1) of the Constitution of Sri Lanka seeks to confer the power to the Court of Appeal to
          grant leave to appeal ex mero motu or at the instance of any aggrieved party to any matter or
                                                                                    
          proceedings before it, from any final order, Judgment, decree or sentence of that Court in any
          matter civil or criminal, which involves a substantial question of law. It is manifest that Article
          128(2) differs from 128(1) in many ways. Firstly, the Supreme Court may grant special leave to
          appeal in terms of 128(2) even where the Court of Appeal has refused to grant leave to appeal or
          where regardless of whether the Court of Appeal has allowed or refused leave, the Supreme
          Court is of the opinion the matter is fit for review by the Supreme Court. Secondly, Article 128(2)
          contemplates the grant of special leave to appeal even against interlocutory orders of the Court
          of Appeal, which did not fall within the purview of Article 128(1). Thirdly, not only an “aggrieved
                                                                                    
          party”, but any person whomsoever who can satisfy Supreme Court that the matter is fit for
          review by it, may succeed in obtaining special leave to appeal under Article 128(2) of the
          Constitution. Fourthly, the Supreme Court has a broad discretion to grant special leave to appeal
          where it considers the matter fit for review by it, except where as provided in the proviso to
          Article 128(2), it is satisfied that the matter is of public or general importance, in which event the
          Supreme Court is bound to grant leave to appeal. In my view, the submission of learned Counsel
          for the 11th and 12th Respondents that Article 128(2) should be read in the light of Article 128(1)
          which confines the right to appeal to an “aggrieved party” is bereft of merit.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          In Bandaranaike v. Jagathsena (1984) 2 SLR 397 the Supreme Court had to deal with a similar
          situation, and held that it has a wide discretion to entertain appeals even from a person who
          were not a party to the proceedings before the Court of Appeal. Colin-Thome J (with whom
          Wanasundera J and Cader J concurred) observed at page 406 of the judgment that-
                                                                                    
              Under Article 128 (2), the Supreme Court has a wide discretion to grant special leave to
              appeal to the Supreme Court from a judgment of the Court of Appeal where in the opinion
                                                                                    
              of the Supreme Court, the case or matter is fit for review by the Supreme Court. Under
              Article 128 (2) you do not have to be a party in the original case. (Emphasis added).
                                                                                    
          The third preliminary objection is therefore overruled.                   
                                                                                    
            4) Abuse of Process of Court                                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          The next preliminary objection was that the application of the Petitioner-Appellant for special
          leave to appeal is an abuse of court. Learned Counsel for 11th Respondent made submissions on
          the basis that the impeachment resolution to remove the Petitioner-Respondent from the post of
          Chief Justice was debated in Parliament on 10th and 11th January 2013, and the President has
          made an order on 12th January 2013, removing her from Office. In these circumstances, he has
          submitted that both the Parliament and the President of Sri Lanka have failed to comply with the
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          12                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          judgement of the Court of Appeal, and hence any appeal from the decision of the Court of Appeal
          amounts to an abuse of process of Court.                                  
                                                                                    
          The response of the learned Attorney-General to these submissions is that the sequence of
          events connected with the removal from office of the Petitioner-Respondent has resulted in a
          legal antinomy where the actions of the legislature and the executive appear to be at odds with
          the ruling of the Court of Appeal. He has submitted that the impugned judgment of the Court of
                                                                                    
          Appeal is bad in law, and that Parliament, which is constitutionally vested with the powers that
          could ultimately lead to an order of removal from office of a superior court judge, as well as the
          President who is vested with the power to make such an order, were left with no choice but to
          exercise their powers under the Constitution notwithstanding an apparent inconsistency with the
          ruling of the Court of Appeal, which was made without jurisdiction.       
                                                                                    
          In my opinion, the mere fact that the legislative and executive arms of government have not
          taken cognizance of or complied with the judgment of the Court of Appeal, does not deprive the
                                                                                    
          Chief Law Officer of the State from exercising his constitutional rights under Article 128(2) of the
          Constitution to seek to rectify, what he considers a grave error of law. Accordingly, I have to
          overrule the fourth preliminary objection raised to the maintainability of this case.
                                                                                    
            5) Failure to file Affidavit                                            
                                                                                    
          On the final preliminary objection raised by the 11th and 12th Respondents, learned Counsel have
          submitted that since the Attorney General has failed to file an affidavit in support of the
                                                                                    
          allegations of facts set out in his purported application, the said application should be dismissed
          in limine. On the other hand, the learned Attorney-General has submitted that Rule 6 of the
          Supreme Court Rules, 1990 is pertinent to this matter. This Rule provides as follows:-
                                                                                    
              Where any such application contains allegations of fact which cannot be verified by
              reference to the judgement or order of the Court of Appeal in respect of which special leave
              to appeal is sought, the petitioner shall annex in support of such allegations an affidavit or
              other relevant document (including any relevant portion of the record of the Court of Appeal
                                                                                    
              or the original court or tribunal)....... Every affidavit by a petitioner, his instructing attorney-
              at-law, or his recognized agent, shall be confined to the statement of such facts as the
              declarant is able of his own knowledge and observation to testify to: provided that
              statements of such declarant’s belief may also be admitted , if reasonable grounds for such
              belief be set forth in such affidavit. (Emphasis added)               
                                                                                    
          The Attorney General has submitted that the Petition of Appeal does not contain any allegations
                                                                                    
          of fact, and that in consequence of a direction made by this Court on 4th April 2013, the record of
          the Court of Appeal was called for by this Court and has been received in the Registry. He has
          further submitted that in those circumstances Rule 6 did not impose any obligation on the
          Petitioner-Appellant to file any affidavit in support of his petition. He emphasises that his
          application for special leave to appeal raised several substantive questions of law, and in fact this
          Court has already granted special leave to appeal on two of them. I am persuaded that for those
          reasons, the preliminary objection must be overruled.                     
                                                                                    
                                          13                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
             Conclusions                                                            
                                                                                    
          This Court has already granted special leave to appeal against the Petitioner-Respondent and the
          Respondent-Respondents on two substantial questions of law involving public and general
          importance, and was inclined to permit the 11th and 12th Respondent an opportunity of opposing
          the grant of special leave to appeal in the interest of justice. Court has heard learned Counsel for
          the aforesaid Respondents and learned Attorney-General on these preliminary objections, and I
                                                                                    
          am of the firm opinion that they should be overruled, and I make order accordingly, overruling
          the same. I would also grant special leave to appeal against the 11th and 12th Respondent on the
          same questions which are for convenience set out below:                   
                                                                                    
            1) Did the Court of Appeal err in holding that the writ jurisdiction of that Court embodied in
               Article 140 of the Constitution extends to proceedings of Parliament or a Committee of
               Parliament?                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            2) Did the Court of Appeal err in holding that the words “any Court of first instance or
               tribunal or other institution or any other person” in Article 140 of the Constitution
               extends to the Parliament or a Committee of Parliament?              
                                                                                    
          Written submissions of all parties shall be filed within two weeks from today. Registrar is directed
          to list this appeal to be mentioned on 16th July, 2013 for fixing a date for hearing.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                              JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT            
          P.A. RATNAYAKE, PC, J.                                                    
                    I agree.                                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                              JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          S. HETTIGE, PC, J.                                                        
                    I agree.                                                        
                                                                                    
                                               JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT           
                                                                                    
          E. WANASUNDERA, PC, J.                                                    
                    I agree.                                                        
                                                                                    
                                               JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT           
          R. MARASINGHE, J.                                                         
                                                                                    
                    I agree.                                                        
                                                                                    
                                               JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT           
                                                                                    
                                          14                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          15                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    