                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              IN THE   SUPREME      COURT    OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC                 
                                                                                  
                     SOCIALIST     REPUBLIC    OF   SRI LANKA                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
         SC Appeal No.11/2001 (CHC)         Indian Bank,                          
                                                                                  
         Commercial High Court              Nos.22 24, Mudalige Mawatha,          
         Case No: 181/97(1)                 Colombo 1.                            
                                                                                  
                                                    Plaintiff-Appellant           
                                            Vs                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                            Acuity Stock Brokers (Pvt) Limited.,  
                                                                                  
                                            Level 6, ‘Acuity House”,              
                                            No.53, Dharmapala Mawatha,            
                                                                                  
                                            Colombo 3.                            
                                            Formerly                              
                                                                                  
                                            Forbes ABN AMRO SECURITIES (PVT) Ltd.,
                                            No.463/38, Nawam Mawatha,             
                                                                                  
                                            Colombo 2.                            
                                                    Defendant-Respondent          
                                                                                  
         Before :  S. Tilakawardane J,                                            
                                                                                  
                   N. G. Amaratunge J,                                            
                                                                                  
                   R. K. S. Suresh Chandra J.                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
         Counsel:  Prasanna Jayawardene with A.Siriwardane for Plaintiff-Appellant
                                                                                  
                   Kushan de Alwis with Hiran Jayasuriya and Chamath Fernando for 
                                                                                  
                   Defendant-Respondent                                           
                                                                                  
         Argued on:          4th August, 2010.                                    
                                                                                  
         Written Submissions tendered on                                          
                             27th October, 2010 for Plaintiff-Appellant           
                                                                                  
                             8th November, 2010 for Defendant-Respondent          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
         Decided on:         18th February, 2011                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                           1                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
         R. K. S. Suresh Chandra J,                                               
                                                                                  
               This is an appeal from the judgment of the Commercial High Court whereby the action of the
                                                                                  
               Plaintiff-Appellant was dismissed.                                 
                                                                                  
               The Plaintiff-Appellant instituted action in the Commercial High Court against the Defendant
               Respondent to recover a sum of Rs.5,558,841/- with legal interest thereon.
                                                                                  
               In it’s plaint the Appellant stated inter alia that one M.Sivasubramaniam was a customer of
               the Bank and maintained a current account and that he was also a customer of the
                                                                                  
               Respondent who carried on business as a stockbroker, that the Respondent bought and sold
               shares on behalf of the said M.Sivasubramaniam and the Respondent held such shares on
               behalf of and for the account of the said Sivasubramaniam. On or about the 21st of January
               1994 the said Sivasubramaniam had requested the Appellant to lend and advance monies to
                                                                                  
               him by way of an Overdraft facility granted on his current account. That by the promise
               and/or contract and/or agreement in writing dated 21st January 1994 the Respondent had
               held out and assured the Appellant that (a) the Respondent held the shares listed therein
                                                                                  
               and (b) that the Respondent shall credit all the sale proceeds of these shares to the current
               account of M.Sivasubramniam with the Appellant Bank.               
                                                                                  
               Upon the basis of this assurance given by the Respondent, the Appellant had lent and
               advanced monies to the said Sivasubramaniam by way of an Overdraft Facility granted upon
                                                                                  
               the said current account. That the said Sivasubramaniam had failed and neglected to repay a
               sum of Rs.6,385,077/42 which was due and owing to the Appellant upon the said overdraft
               facility, that the Appellant requested the Respondent to ensure that the sale proceeds of the
               shares were credited to the aforesaid current account. On or about the 21st of December
                                                                                  
               1994, the Appellant had become aware that the Respondent had acted in breach of the
               agreement and undertaking given by them and that the respondent had failed and neglected
               and was unable to credit the sale proceeds of the shares to the aforesaid current account.
                                                                                  
               The monies remained due and owing to the Appellant. Had the Respondent acted in
               accordance with the undertaking given by them, the Appellant would have received a sum of
               Rs.5,558,841/- being the market value of the shares in reduction of the monies which
                                                                                  
               remained due and owing and unpaid to the Appellant. That the Respondent’s wrongful and
               unlawful breach of the agreement and undertaking had caused the Appellant to suffer loss
               and damage in a sum of Rs.5,558,841 and that the Respondent was liable to pay the said
               sum.                                                               
                                                                                  
               The Respondent took up the position in its answer that the letter dated 21st January 1994
                                                                                  
               was issued on the specific instructions of the said Sivasubramaniam, that on or about 25th
               March 1994 they received instructions from the said Sivasubramaniam that the shares held
               in his favour with the Respondent be sold and the monies be remitted to Seylan Merchant
                                                                                  
               Bank, consequent upon which a tripartite agreement was entered into between Seylan
               Merchant Bank, M.Sivasubramaniam and the Respondent. That the instructions given by the
                                                                                  
                                           2                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               said M.sivasubramaniam to the Respondent to credit the said account maintained at the
               Appellant Bank by the said Sivasubramaniam with all sales proceeds of the said shares
               and/or stocks was countermanded and/or revoked with effect from 25th March 1994, that
                                                                                  
               the purported promise and/or agreement and/or contract relied on by the Appellant was
               unenforceable against the Respondent and that the said writing was not a promise and/or
               agreement and/or contract.                                         
                                                                                  
               After trial the Commercial High Court by its judgment dated 11th May 2001 dismissed the
                                                                                  
               action of the Appellant on the ground that the Respondent was bound to act on the
               instructions of M.Sivasubramaniam, that the letter dated 21st January 1994 (P3) cannot be
               considered as a legally enforceable document as there was an absence of consideration and
               that the Respondent credited monies being the sales proceeds of shares held by
                                                                                  
               M.Sivasubramaniam to his account held at the Appellant Bank until M.Sivasubramaniam
               countermanded such instructions. The learned High Court Judge has assumed that it is the
               English Law that applies by stating that ‘consideration’ is a requisite of a contract and
                                                                                  
               concluded that a perusal of document P3 shows that there is a total lack of consideration
               and hence unenforceable.                                           
                                                                                  
               The main argument of learned Counsel for the Appellant was based on the legality of the
               document dated 21st January 1994 (P3). His contention was that the Roman Dutch Law
                                                                                  
               applied and that the said document P3 was enforceable against the Respondent and that
               even under the English Law as developed in later times it would be so. The argument of the
               learned Counsel for the Respondent was that the said agreement was unenforceable as
               according to English Law there had to be consideration and since that element was lacking
                                                                                  
               the said agreement was not enforceable.                            
                                                                                  
               The Agreement (P3) on which the Appellant rests its case was an undertaking given by the
               Respondent to the Appellant on the basis of instructions given to them by
               M.Sivasubramaniam. The said undertaking had been given with all seriousness as was seen
                                                                                  
               from the fact that when they had quoted the Account number of the client erroneously they
               acknowledged the corrected number of the account subsequently. The Respondent was a
               stockbroker and held the shares of the said Sivasubramaniam and was in control of the said
                                                                                  
               shares and they had been given specific instructions regarding the sale and the acts to be
               performed on the sale of such shares.                              
                                                                                  
               The Respondent having undertaken to remit the proceeds of the sale of shares to the
               Appellant had subsequently entered into a tripartite agreement with the said
                                                                                  
               Sivasubramaniam and Seylan Bank which had the effect of not being able to proceed with
               the undertaking given to the Appellant Bank. Although this agreement had been entered
               into by the Respondent, they did not take steps to inform the Appellant Bank that their client
               Sivasubramaniam had countermanded the said agreement with the Appellant by giving new
                                                                                  
               instructions. Without informing the Appellant Bank of the new agreement, they had sold the
               shares and remitted the monies to Seylan Bank. The Respondent had informed the Appellant
                                                                                  
                                           3                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Bank about the countermanding of the agreement only after the Appellant Bank had sent
               letter dated 17th December 1994 (P8) requesting the Respondent to sell the shares and
               remit the proceeds to the Appellant Bank as agreed in P3. In reply to this request in P8 the
                                                                                  
               Respondent had for the first time informed the Appellant Bank by letter dated 21st
               December 1994 (P9) that their client Sivasubramniam had entered into a tri-partite
               agreement with another Bank and that action had been taken according to the said
               agreement and that there were no shares held by Sivasubramaniam in his share trading
                                                                                  
               accounts. The Respondent had therefore failed to inform the Appellant Bank about the
               position taken up in P9 although they knew about it on 26th March 1994 as they were one of
               the parties to the said tri-partite agreement. It is thereafter that the Appellant sought to
                                                                                  
               take steps to recover the monies due to them by sending a letter of demand on 11th January
               1995 (P10) and instituting action thereafter. The aforesaid conduct on the part of the
               Respondent was definitely a breach on the part of the Respondent of the undertaking given
                                                                                  
               to the Appellant Bank in P3. This breach was confirmed by the Respondent by the aforesaid
               letter P9 when the Respondent stated very clearly and assertively that the earlier
               instructions were countermanded and/or revoked. Countermanding means cancelling or
               reversing a previously issued command, instruction or order. The Legal Thesaurus defines
                                                                                  
               countermand as a contrary command cancelling or reversing a previous command. Even
               though the said letter was sent by the Respondent’s Lawyers it was a situation of conveying
               the instructions given to them by their client. Even if the Lawyers choose to use language
                                                                                  
               which has serious overtones the client( the Respondent) has to take the responsibility for
               same. Not only does the said document state about countermanding, it goes further to state
               .. and/or revoking the earlier instructions which to my mind has a double cancellation effect
                                                                                  
               or a very strong assertion of such cancellation. Therefore there is no doubt that the
               Respondent is in breach of the undertaking given in P3.            
                                                                                  
               The question then arises as to whether the Appellant could recover the monies it claimed on
               the basis of the breach of the said undertaking in P3. Although the Respondent had
               transacted with the Appellant Bank, does the said transaction become a banking transaction
                                                                                  
               merely because the Appellant was a Bank. What is a Banking transaction? There is no clear
               cut demarcation of the transactions that one has with a Bank being classified as Banking
               Transactions. It is usual to consider lodging money into a bank account, withdrawing money,
                                                                                  
               adding interest to an account, direct debits, deducting bank charges, basically any sort of
               activity involving a change of money in an account is a banking transaction which are usually
               listed in a bank account statement. The transaction embedded in the agreement P3 is a pure
                                                                                  
               and simple contractual undertaking given by the Respondent.        
                                                                                  
               The Civil Law Ordinance No.05 of 1865 introduced the English Law relating to Banks and
               Banking. But there are many transactions where the Banks are parties which do not come
               within the realm of Banking Transactions and regarding which the Roman Dutch Law applies.
                                                                                  
               In my view it is the Roman Dutch Law that would apply to the transaction engulfed in the
               document P3. Would the said transaction amount to an enforceable contract? Under the
               Roman Dutch Law there should be justa causa for a contract to be valid. In the present case
                                           4                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               the undertaking given by the Respondent would satisfy the requirement for a valid contract
               as it was an undertaking given with all seriousness.               
                                                                                  
               In Lipton v Buchanan 8 N.L.R. 49 Wendt J stated that “Causa denotes the ground, reason, or
               object of a promise giving such promise a binding effect in law. It also has a much wider
                                                                                  
               meaning than the English term “consideration” and comprises the motive or reason for a
               promise and also pure moral consideration.” Further “Nude pacts made in earnest and with
               a deliberate mind give rise to actions, equally with contracts.”   
                                                                                  
               In Jayawickreme v Amarasuriya 20 N.L.R. 289 Lord Atkinson observed that under the Roman
                                                                                  
               Dutch Law a promise deliberately made to discharge a moral duty or to do an act of
               generosity or benevolence can be enforced at law, the justa causa debendi sufficient
               according to the Roman Dutch Law to sustain a promise being something far wider than
                                                                                  
               what the English Law treats as good consideration for a promise.   
                                                                                  
               In Edward Silva v De Silva 46 NLR 510 Soertsz J stated that for all that appears to be required
               to support a promise and to make it enforceable is that “the agreement must be a
               deliberate, serious act, not one that is irrational or motiveless.”
                                                                                  
               Therefore on a consideration of these authorities it is my view that P3 was an enforceable
                                                                                  
               contract and that the Respondent had breached same and that the learned High Court Judge
               was in error in assuming that English Law applied without considering the nature of the
               transaction between the parties and dismissing the action of the Appellant.
                                                                                  
               Learned Counsel for the Appellant in his written submission has adverted to the fact that
               even in the developed English Law there have been instances where the English Courts have
                                                                                  
               been flexible in dealing with the concept of consideration rigidly and that if there is evidence
               that the parties had acted upon the faith of a written document that the Courts would prefer
               to assume that the documents embodies a definite intention to be bound and will strive to
                                                                                  
               implement its terms. I consider it not necessary to delve into the development of the
               concept of consideration in English Law as I have stated above that the Roman Dutch Law
               would apply to the transaction in question.                        
                                                                                  
               A further matter that transpired according to the evidence led in the case and which was
                                                                                  
               sought to be used by the Respondent was that after giving the undertaking in P3, that they
               had honoured the undertaking to some extent by remitting certain monies by cheques V2 to
               V5 as being the sale proceeds of the shares held by the Respondent during the period 21st
                                                                                  
               January 1994 to 25th March 1994. These cheques had been received by the Appellant from
               Sivasubramaniam and not from the Respondent, and the Respondent was unable to
               establish that these were monies from the sale proceeds which were given to
               Sivasubramniam to deposit in terms of the undertaking in P3. This brings to light two
                                                                                  
               aspects, firstly it is an acceptance of the obligation undertaken by them in P3 and secondly
               that they had acted in furtherance of that obligation. If that was the objective of the
               Respondent, then their argument that P3 was not an enforceable contract has necessarily to
                                                                                  
                                           5                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               fail. It is to be observed that the learned High Court Judge too fell into this error by
               recognizing that the Respondent had credited monies with the Appellant Bank.
                                                                                  
               This action had commenced in December 1997 and the High Court had concluded same in
               May 2001. Since then, almost ten years had lapsed before it was taken up for final hearing.
                                                                                  
               In these circumstances it would be reasonable to limit the legal interest that would
               otherwise accrue to the benefit of the Appellant. In the above circumstances the judgment
               of the Commercial High Court is set aside and judgment is entered in favour of the Plaintiff-
                                                                                  
               Appellant in a sum of Rs.5,558,841/- together with a flat rate of interest at 6% per annum
               until payment in full and the Plaintiff will also be entitled to Rs.21,000/- as costs.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                 Judge of the Supreme Court       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               S.TILAKAWARDANE J.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                  I agree.                                        
                                                                                  
                                                 Judge of the Supreme Court       
                                                                                  
               N.G.AMARATUNGA  J.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                  I agree.                                        
                                                                                  
                                                 Judge of the Supreme Court       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                           6                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  