                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC                      
                          SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA                         
                                                                                  
                      ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          S.C. Appeal No. 79/2002                                                 
          S.C. (Spl.) L.A. No. 242/2002                                           
          C.A. (Writ) Application No. 1416/2000                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                       Ceylon Quartz Industries (Private)         
                                       Limited, “Bartleet House”,                 
                                       65, Braybrooke Place,                      
                                       Colombo 2.                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                           Petitioner-Appellant                   
                                                                                  
                                       Vs.                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     1. The Director General of Customs           
                                       Customs House,                             
                                       Bristol Street,                            
                                       Colombo 1.                                 
                                                                                  
                                     2. H.M.H.B. Seneviratne,                     
                                                                                  
                                       Assistant Director of Customs,             
                                       Customs House,                             
                                       Bristol Street,                            
                                       Colombo 01.                                
                                                                                  
                                     3. Hon. The Attorney General,                
                                       Attorney General’s Department,             
                                       Hulftsdorp Street,                         
                                       Colombo 12.                                
                                                                                  
                                           Respondents-Respondents                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BEFORE   :    Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, CJ.                         
                        N.G. Amaratunga, J. &                                     
                        P.A. Ratnayake, PC., J.                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                        1         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          COUNSEL  :    Romesh de Silva, PC., with Geethaka Gunawardena and       
                        Shanaka Cooray for Petitioner-Appellant                   
                                                                                  
                        F. Jameel, DSG., with Rajiv Gunatilake, SC., for          
                        Respondents-Respondents                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ARGUED ON:    07.02.2011 and 09.02.2011                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS                                                     
          TENDERED ON:  Petitioner-Appellant    :    21.03.2011                   
                                                                                  
                        Respondents-Respondents :    22.03.2011                   
                                                                                  
          DECIDED ON:   04.10.2012                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, CJ.                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          This is an appeal from the judgment of the Court of Appeal dated 05-09-2002.
                                                                                  
          By that judgment the Court of Appeal had dismissed the application of the
                                                                                  
          petitioner-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) who had sought
          Writs of Prohibition and Certiorari. The appellant preferred an application to this
                                                                                  
          Court for special leave to appeal for which this Court had granted special leave to
          appeal on the following questions:                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              1.   Can the Customs interpret the nature of the goods that can     
                   be exported under and in terms of the Agreement X8?            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              2.   Is the power of the Customs restricted to verifying whether    
                   the goods exported conform to the goods said to be             
                                                                                  
                   exported by exporters?                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                        2         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The facts of this appeal, as submitted by the appellant, albeit brief, are as
                                                                                  
          follows.                                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The appellant is a duly incorporated limited liability company that was formed to
                                                                                  
          setup and operate a business of mining and processing of Silica Quartz for
          export. Processed Silica had never been exported from Sri Lanka and if the
                                                                                  
          project was successful it would not only be profitable for the appellant company,
                                                                                  
          but also would have brought a large number of foreign exchange to the country.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Silica Quartz is used, inter alia, for the manufacture of chips in computers,
                                                                                  
          quality tumblers and quality ornaments.                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Board of Investment, which was formerly known as the Greater Colombo
          Economic Commission (hereinafter referred to as the BOI) had always invited
                                                                                  
          business ventures of this nature and had also offered itself as a One Stop Shop.
                                                                                  
          This provided the infrastructure and facilities necessary for entrepreneur
          businessman to conduct its business and to export its products without  
                                                                                  
          unnecessary bureaucratic hindrances (X1). In view of the undertakings given by
                                                                                  
          the BOI, which had the authority of the Government of Sri Lanka, the appellant
          had applied for BOI status as well as to enter into an agreement with the BOI.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Thereafter the appellant and the BOI had entered into an agreement and in
          terms of the said Agreement the BOI had granted approval to the appellant to
                                                                                  
          operate business for the mining and processing of Silica Quartz for export (X8).
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The appellant, acting in terms of the said Agreement had mined and processed
                                                                                  
          Silica Quartz and thereafter had taken steps to export it. At that stage, the
          respondents-respondents (hereinafter referred to as the respondents), after
                                                                                  
          inspecting the said items, had taken the view that Customs duty was leviable for
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                        3         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          the export of Silica Quartz as the appellant was only entitled to export Silica in
                                                                                  
          the form of powder, in terms of the Agreement X8.                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Having taken the said view the respondents had proceeded to inquire into the
                                                                                  
          said matter, without referring that to arbitration in terms of the Agreement. At
          that stage the appellant had filed the application before the Court of Appeal
                                                                                  
                                               st    nd                           
          praying for a writ of prohibition restraining the 1 and 2 respondents from
          continuing with the said inquiry and from imposing any export duty or penalty or
          forfeiture in respect of the consignment of 100MT of semi processed Silica
                                                                                  
                                                          st                      
          Quartz and for a writ of certiorari quashing the Order of the 1 respondent
          imposing a requirement that the appellant to give a Bank guarantee before
          exporting the said consignment (X2 and X3).                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Learned Deputy Solicitor General for the respondents strenuously contended that
                                                                                  
          the BOI Agreement had given the appellant concessions of duty only where the
                                                                                  
          product in question was to be exported and that the item that was agreed upon
          to be exported was not semi processed quartz, but only Silica Powder. It was
                                                                                  
          also contended that as there was no dispute between the BOI and the appellant,
                                                                                  
          there was no necessity to refer it to Arbitration.                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Learned President’s Counsel for the appellant took up the position that the
                                                                                  
          appellant had entered into an agreement with the BOI and once such an   
          agreement is entered into, the CUSDEC forms have to be submitted to the BOI
                                                                                  
          and only the BOI could grant approval. Learned President’s Counsel further
          submitted that in the event if there was no approval granted by the BOI, the
                                                                                  
          appellant has the right to go for Arbitration. It was strenuously contended by
                                                                                  
          the learned President’s Counsel for the appellant that the Customs has neither
          the power nor the jurisdiction to get involved in this dispute.         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                        4         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Having said that let me now turn to consider the appeal on the basis of the
                                                                                  
          questions of law on which special leave to appeal was granted.          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          It is not disputed that the appellant had entered into an agreement with the BOI
                                                                                  
          on 12-12-1991 (X8). In that it is stated that the appellant had requested to set
          up/conduct and operate a business of mining and processing of Silica Quartz for
                                                                                  
          export in collaboration with a Japanese Company. The Agreement has clearly
                                                                                  
          stated that Greater Colombo Economic Commission, which has been later   
          renamed as the BOI, had approved the said application subject to the terms and
                                                                                  
          conditions stipulated in the said Agreement. The said Agreement, as submitted
                                                                                  
          by the learned President’s Counsel for the appellant, contained, inter alia, the
          following provisions:                                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “ 10)  In accordance with and subject to the powers conferred on     
                                                                                  
                   the Commission under Section 17 of the said Law, No. 4 of      
                                                                                  
                   1978 and regulations that may be applicable thereto the        
                   following benefits and/or exemptions and/or privileges are     
                                                                                  
                   hereby granted to the Enterprise in connection with and/or     
                                                                                  
                   in relation to the said business.                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                   . . . .                                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              (ix) All goods, articles manufactured and/or produced by the        
                                                                                  
                   Enterprise in accordance with this agreement may be            
                   exported outside Sri Lanka free of export duty and any         
                                                                                  
                   Custom or export control or other like restriction. Provided   
                                                                                  
                   always that any Governmental authority may examine the         
                   correctness of any declaration made and for such purpose       
                                                                                  
                   exercise such powers in such manner as may be directed by      
                                                                                  
                   the Commission. . . .                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                        5         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              (xii) The provisions of the laws set out in Schedule B of the said  
                                                                                  
                   Law, No.4 of 1978, which are inconsistent with the benefits    
                                                                                  
                   and/or exemption and/or privileges set out in Sub-Clauses (i)  
                   to (xi) above shall not be applicable to the Enterprise in     
                                                                                  
                   relation to the said business.”                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Learned President’s Counsel for the appellant contended that Clause 10 (xii) of
                                                                                  
          the Agreement marked X8, which was referred to above, deals with the Schedule
          B of Law, No.4 of 1978. According to the submissions of the learned President’s
                                                                                  
          Counsel Customs Ordinance is also set out in Schedule B of the said Law, No.4 of
                                                                                  
          1978. In the circumstances, it was contended on behalf of the appellant that by
          the inclusion of the said Clause 10 (xii) of the Agreement X8, the provisions
                                                                                  
          contained in the Customs Ordinance, which are inconsistent with the benefits
          and/or exemptions and/or privileges set out in the said Agreement (X8) are
                                                                                  
          clearly excluded.                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Learned Deputy Solicitor General for the respondents contended that, the
                                                                                  
          appellant had submitted the Customs Declaration Form, commonly known as,
                                                                                  
          CUSDEC (P8) to the Customs Department. At that stage the officer in charge
          had examined the said document and had found in Column 33 that the      
                                                                                  
          Commodity Code had been entered as 2506. Since the said Code, being the 
                                                                                  
          General Heading, the officer had become suspicious and had decided to examine
          the Cargo to ascertain the exact nature of the goods that were to be exported.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Accordingly, learned Deputy Solicitor General for the respondents submitted that,
                                                                                  
          on examination Customs had found that the goods sought to be exported were
                                                                                  
          in fact Quartz, but had attracted a duty of 20% since it was not processed
          quartz. According to the learned Deputy Solicitor General only processed quartz
                                                                                  
          would attract the duty free concession.                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                        6         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The main contention of the learned President’s Counsel for the appellant was
                                                                                  
          that once an agreement is entered into between the appellant and the BOI, the
                                                                                  
          Customs has neither the power nor the jurisdiction to take any further steps in
          this matter. Learned President’s Counsel relied on the Agreement that was
                                                                                  
          entered into and the procedure that has been stipulated in terms of the said
          Agreement.                                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          It is to be noted that the appellant, as has already been stated, had entered into
          an agreement with the BOI. Facilitating investments in Sri Lanka, began with
                                                                                  
          the introduction of the Greater Colombo Economic Commission in 1978.    
                                                                                  
          Fourteen (14) years later, that Commission was reconstituted as the BOI for it to
          function as a central facilitation point for investors.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The BOI Act, in its objects had clearly stipulated that it shall diversify the sources
                                                                                  
          of foreign exchange earnings and increase the export earnings. It is with that
                                                                                  
          objective the BOI has been granted the power to enter into agreements with any
          enterprise in or outside the Area of Authority in terms of Section 17 of the Act.
                                                                                  
          Moreover, when entered into such agreements, the BOI has the power to grant
                                                                                  
          exemptions from any law referred to Schedule B. The said Section 17 is as
          follows:                                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “ (1) The Board shall have the power to enter into agreements        
                   with any enterprise in or outside the Area of Authority and to 
                                                                                  
                   grant exemptions from any law referred to in Schedule B        
                   hereto, or to modify or vary the application of any such laws, 
                                                                                  
                   to such enterprises in accordance with such regulations as     
                                                                                  
                   may be made by the Minister.                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                        7         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              (2)  Every such agreement shall be reduced to writing and shall     
                                                                                  
                   upon registration with the Board, constitute a valid and       
                                                                                  
                   binding contract between the Board and the enterprise.”        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The BOI had published a brochure describing its operations and services. The
          brochure released on 15-07-1998, which is filed of Record, refers to the role of
                                                                                  
          the BOI in terms of Section 17 of the BOI Act.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In that it is clearly stated thus:                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                   “Under Section 17 of the Act, the BOI is empowered to grant    
                   special concessions to companies satisfying specific eligibility
                                                                                  
                   criteria, which are designed to meet strategic economic        
                   objectives of the government. The mechanism through            
                                                                                  
                   which such concessions are granted is the Agreement which      
                                                                                  
                   modifies, exempts and waives identified laws in keeping with   
                   the BOI Regulations. These laws include Inland Revenue,        
                                                                                  
                   Customs, Exchange Control and Import Control.”                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          These are attempts made to attract investments both by foreign and local
                                                                                  
          enterprises. In fact the purpose of the brochure is to demonstrate the  
                                                                                  
          advantages in entering into Agreements with the BOI. When considering the
          structure of the BOI, as they too has advertised, it is apparent that it is to
                                                                                  
          function as a central facilitation point for investors both national and
          international.                                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          By entering into an Agreement with a special business entity, BOI undertakes to
          facilitate investment process at different stages. Clause 10 (ix) of the Agreement
                                                                                  
          referred to earlier, deals with the conditions that are applicable to such
                                                                                  
          Enterprises with regard to Custom or Export Control. The BOI Brochure had also
                                                                                  
                                                                        8         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          clearly stipulated that it would facilitate import/export clearance and Customs
                                                                                  
          procedure for import of Capitol goods, raw materials and the export of the final
                                                                                  
          products.                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In these circumstances, a question arises as to the role of the BOI once the
          Agreement was entered into between the appellant and the BOI.           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          It is not disputed that the objective in introducing BOI was for it to function as a
          central facilitation point for investors. It had introduced itself as a One Stop
                                                                                  
          Centre, which had categorically stated in their brochures that when entered into
                                                                                  
          an Agreement with the BOI, the process and the spirit of it cannot be changed.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          It is in the light of the above that consideration should be given for the services
          rendered by the BOI for investors on imports and exports.               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The BOI in its publication titled “Guidance for Investors on Imports and Exports”
          has stated that the BOI is responsible for permitting imports and exports of
                                                                                  
          Enterprises regulated under Section 17 of the BOI Act. It also has a    
                                                                                  
          responsibility to provide other investor related services. For this purpose a
          separate Investor Services Department has been established by the BOI. It is of
                                                                                  
          interest to refer to the facilities that are provided by the said Department of the
                                                                                  
          BOI, which includes the following:                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              1.  Processing of Import/Export documents                           
              2.  Verification of Cargo, Imports and Exports                      
                                                                                  
              3.  Issue of Certificates of Origin for Apparel and Textile Products
                                                                                  
                  for EU countries                                                
              4.  Approval for clearances from Bonded Warehouses                  
                                                                                  
              5.  Approval for Subcontracts, Transfers and Local Sales            
                                                                                  
              6.  Re-Import and Re-Export items                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                        9         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              7.  Recommendations for issue of expatriate Visas (in respect of    
                                                                                  
                  Zones)                                                          
                                                                                  
              8.  Other approvals related to Investor Services activities         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The said handbook also refers to the procedure that should be followed in
          effecting exports for enterprises, which have entered into agreements with the
                                                                                  
          BOI. It is therefore apparent that the BOI has undertaken to provide necessary
                                                                                  
          and relevant measures to examine imports and exports at the premises of the
          enterprise and not at the Port or the Airport.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Learned Deputy Solicitor General for the respondents strenuously contended that
          although Section 17 of the Act refers to the exemptions from any law referred to
                                                                                  
          in Schedule B of the Act, which included the Customs Ordinance and contended
          that exemptions could be granted for an enterprise provided such exemptions,
                                                                                  
          variations or modifications are in accordance with the Regulations made by the
                                                                                  
          Minister under Section 24.                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Learned Deputy Solicitor General contended that there are no Regulations, which
                                                                                  
          take away the requirement of a BOI company from submitting a CUSDEC nor 
          empowering BOI employees to examine the CUSDEC and grant approval before
                                                                                  
          the Export or Import takes place. Since there are no such Regulations, the final
                                                                                  
          determination and approval, according to the learned Deputy Solicitor General, is
          with the Customs.                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          It was further contented that unless the appellant proves that there are
                                                                                  
          Regulations, which permit the BOI to completely suspend the total operation of
                                                                                  
          the laws in Schedule B to all BOI enterprises, the entire Customs Ordinance
          applies to all BOI enterprises and the only exemptions that can lawfully be
                                                                                  
          granted are in respect of duty and port dues.                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       10         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          As referred to earlier BOI was introduced and established chiefly for the purpose
                                                                                  
          of attracting investments within the country. With the said objective in mind
                                                                                  
          various concessions were offered for the investors. In this process the BOI was
          introduced as a ‘One Stop Shop’ mainly to indicate that there will not be any
                                                                                  
          unnecessary hazzles in carrying out their business by the investors. This position
          is clearly demonstrated by Clause 10 of the Agreement, which lists out the
                                                                                  
          benefits, exemptions and/or privileges that are granted to the Enterprises in
                                                                                  
          connection with the relevant businesses. In that, Sub Clause (ix), referred to
          earlier, clearly stated that, all goods, articles, manufactured and/or produced by
                                                                                  
          the Enterprises may be exported outside Sri Lanka free of export duty and more
                                                                                  
          importantly, any custom or export control. The said Clause 10 (ix) also 
          states that, the said goods produced by the Enterprises should be in accordance
                                                                                  
          with the agreements entered into by the said Enterprise with the BOI.   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The position therefore is quite clear. Business Enterprises were invited to enter
                                                                                  
          into agreements with the BOI offering different types of concessions for them.
          This included in terms of Clouse 10 (ix) concession from export duty and any
                                                                                  
          custom or export control. To obtain such concessions, it would be necessary
                                                                                  
          that the relevant goods and articles are manufactured or produced in accordance
          with the Agreement. It is also necessary to refer to the provisions of Clause
                                                                                  
          10(ix). It provides for any Governmental authority to examine the correctness of
                                                                                  
          any declaration made. However this is subject to the condition that such
          authority should be exercised in the manner as directed by none other than the
                                                                                  
          BOI.                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In the light of the above, it is necessary to consider the Agreement that was
                                                                                  
          entered into between the appellant and the BOI. According to the said   
          Agreement appellant was requested to setup/conduct and operate a business of
                                                                                  
          mining and processing of Silica Quartz for export. The second schedule to the
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       11         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          said Agreement refers to the details of the said project by the two documents
                                                                                  
          dated 15-04-1991 and 07-05-1991, respectively.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              st                                                                  
          The 1 document dated 15-04-1991 is the application for approval of an   
          investment. In that a brief description is given on the summary of the project.
          The said summary is as follows:                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “ 1. Processing of Silica Quartz for exports.                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              2. Rock vein Quartz is crushed, chemically treated and graded for   
                                                                                  
                exports.” (P1)                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The second document, which is a letter from the Managing Director of the
          appellant company to the Director General of the former Greater Colombo 
                                                                                  
          Economic Commission, sets out the details regarding the procession of Silica
                                                                                  
          Quartz for export. The said details are as follows:                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “ Processing procedure of Silica Quartz                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                st                                                                
              1  Stage                                                            
              Powdering, purifying and grading of Silica Quartz for export.       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              Stage 2                                                             
                                                                                  
              Introducing chemical treatment and de-magnetizing at the factory    
              for the export of highly purified chemically treated Silica.        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              Stage 3                                                             
              Introducing a melting plant for already powdered Silica Quartz and  
                                                                                  
              processing into purified Silica for the Silicon Industry.           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       12         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              Stage 4                                                             
                                                                                  
              Introducing Silica based industries such as glass and allied        
                                                                                  
              products.” (P2)                                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Considering the Agreement and the two letters P1 and P2 referred to above, it
          clearly appears that the appellant was to carry out a business of mining and
                                                                                  
          processing of Silica Quartz as stipulated in the Agreement dated 12-12-1991.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The said project had been approved by the BOI and the BOI had permitted the
                                                                                  
          appellant to carry out business as stipulated in the said Agreement dated 12-12-
                                                                                  
          1991. In terms of the said Agreement, as stated earlier the goods manufactured
          under the said Agreement could be exported free of export duty and any custom
                                                                                  
          or export control and if any Governmental authority is to examine “the  
          correctness of any declaration made and for such purpose exercise such power
                                                                                  
          in such manner”, the said direction should be given by the BOI.         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          It is therefore apparent that if at all there was a matter to be examined by the
                                                                                  
          Customs that should be carried out only if there was a direction given to that
                                                                                  
          effect by the BOI. The evidence of A.A. Piyaseeli, Assistant Manager of BOI on
          09-11-2000 (P12) before the Customs inquiry clearly shows that there was no
                                                                                  
          such direction given by the BOI.                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              “Q. This Clause also mentioned that any Governmental authority      
                                                                                  
                  may examine the correctness of the declaration made and for     
                  such purpose exercise such powers as such manner as can be      
                                                                                  
                  directed by the Commission.                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              A. Yes.                                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              Q. Does the word “Commission” meant the BOI?                        
                                                                                  
                                                                       13         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              A. Yes.                                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              Q. Did the BOI give any orders to the Customs regarding this        
                                                                                  
                  matter?                                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              A. No.”                                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The BOI was created by the amendment to the former Greater Colombo      
                                                                                  
          Economic Commission Law No. 4 of 1998. The said Law was introduced to vest
                                                                                  
          the said Commission with powers necessary for the development and resurgence
          of the economy of the country. By the amending Acts and specially with the
                                                                                  
          introduction of the BOI, efforts were made to attract investors and investments
          to the country. It is structured to function as a central facilitation point for
                                                                                  
          investors and for investments which are designed to meet strategic economic
                                                                                  
          objectives of the government. Investors, who would be entering into Agreements
          with the BOI in terms of Section 17 of the Act would be granted special 
                                                                                  
          concessions. One such concession would be the reliefs that are stipulated in
                                                                                  
          Clause 10 (ix) of the Agreement. If the objectives of the BOI is to attract
          investments by giving them special concessions on the basis of its Agreement, it
                                                                                  
          would be the duty of the BOI to ensure that such agreements are fully complied
                                                                                  
          with, without any undue interferences.                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In the event if there had been any breach of the said Agreement then steps
          should have been taken by way of Arbitration as provided for in the arbitration
                                                                                  
          clause.                                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In such circumstances, for the reasons aforesaid the question on which special
                                                                                  
          leave to appeal was granted are answered as follows.                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                       14         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              1.   The Customs cannot interpret the nature of the goods that      
                                                                                  
                   can be exported under and in terms of the Agreement X8;        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              2.   The power of the Customs is restricted to verifying whether    
                                                                                  
                   the goods exported confirm to the goods said to be exported    
                   by exporters.                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          This appeal is accordingly allowed and the Judgment of the Court of Appeal
                                                                   st             
          dated 05-09-2002 is set aside. I grant a writ of prohibition restraining the 1
              nd                                                                  
          and 2 respondents from continuing the inquiry and from imposing any Customs
          duty or penalty or forfeiture in respect of the consignment of the 100MT semi
          processed Silica Quartz described in the invoice of 23-05-2000. I also grant a
                                                                                  
                                           st   nd                                
          writ of certiorari quashing the order of the 1 and 2 respondents imposing a
          requirement that the appellant give a bank guarantee before exporting the
          consignment of the 100MT of semi processed Silica Quartz described in the
                                                                                  
          invoice of 23-05-2000.                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          I make no order as to costs.                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                            Chief Justice                         
                                                                                  
          N.G. Amaratunga, J.                                                     
                                                                                  
              I agree.                                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                            Judge of the Supreme Court            
                                                                                  
          P.A. Ratnayake, PC., J.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              I agree.                                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                            Judge of the Supreme Court            
                                                                                  
                                                                       15         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  