                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    IN THE SUPREME    COURT   OF THE  DEMOCRATIC                  
                                                                                  
                          SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC   OF SRI LANKA                      
                           ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  
            S.C. Appeal No. 82/2008                                               
            S.C. (H.C.) C.A. L.A. No. 47/2008                                     
                                                                                  
            NCP (Anuradhapura) HC CA/ARP 36/2007                                  
            D.C. Polonnaruwa No. 6330/L                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     Palate Gedera Gunadasa,                      
                                     Pradeshiya Sabawa,                           
                                     Medirigiriya.                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Plaintiff-Respondent-Appellant          
                                                                                  
                                     Vs.                                          
                                                                                  
                                     Palate Gedera Marywathy,                     
                                     Parana Pola Asala,                           
                                                                                  
                                     Diyasenpura.                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Defendant-Appellant-Respondent          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            BEFORE    :    Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, J.                       
                           N.G. Amaratunga, J. &                                  
                           Chandra Ekanayake, J.                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            COUNSEL   :    P. Wickramasekera for Plaintiff-Respondent-Appellant   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                           J.P. Gamage for Defendant-Appellant-Respondent         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            ARGUED ON: 13.10.2009                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS                                                   
            TENDERED ON:   Defendant-Respondent: 23.08.2010                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            DECIDED ON: 26.10.2010                                                
                                                                           1      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, J.                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            This is an appeal from the order of the High Court of Civil Appeal of the North Central
                                                                                  
            Province (hereinafter referred to as the High Court) dated 07.05.2008. By that order learned
            Judges of the High Court had set aside the judgment of the District Court of Polonnaruwa
                                                                                  
            dated 24.10.2001 and had granted relief to the defendant-appellant-respondent (hereinafter
                                                                                  
            referred to as the respondent). The plaintiff-respondent-appellant (hereinafter referred to
            as the appellant) sought leave to appeal from this Court, which was granted on the following
                                                                                  
            question:                                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “Have the learned Judges of the Civil Appeal High Court erred
                                                                                  
                      by failing to consider and apply section 60 of the Land     
                                                                                  
                      Development Ordinance to the facts of this case?”           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The facts of this appeal as submitted by the appellant, albeit brief, are as follows:
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The appellant and the respondent are siblings and were the children of one Palate Gedera
            Jamis, who was the original permit holder of the land morefully described in the amended
                                                                                  
            Plaint dated 06.03.1996. The appellant submitted that his father, the said Palate Gedera
                                                                                  
            Jamis had given him half share of the land in question and the other half had been given to
            the respondent. The respondent had been in possession of the entire land and therefore the
                                                                                  
            appellant in his amended plaint, filed before the District Court had prayed that,
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      (1) a declaration that the documents marked P , P and P are valid
                                                          1  2    3               
                         documents;                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      (2) a declaration that the appellant is the lawful successor/permit holder to
                                                                                  
                         the land morefully described in the second schedule to the Plaint; and
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      (3) to evict the respondent from the said corpus.           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                           2      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The respondent had claimed that the said Palate Gedera Jamis had changed his earlier
            disposition of the property in question prior to his death, which was registered on
                                                                                  
            22.11.1994 (P ) and had given the entirety of the land to the respondent.
                      5                                                           
                                                                                  
            After the trial, the District Court had made order in favour of the appellant stating that the
                                                                                  
            registration of the document P on 22.11.1994 does not come within the provisions of
                                   5                                              
            section 60 of Land Development Ordinance. The respondent appealed to the High Court,
                                                                                  
            which had set aside the judgment of the District Court.               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            In the District Court, the parties had admitted that the original permit holder of the land was
                                                                                  
            Palate Gedera Jamis, who had died on 25.05.1994. It was also admitted that the said Jamis
            had by document marked P dated 17.06.1993 named the appellant and the respondent as
                               4                                                  
            successors.                                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Learned Counsel for the respondent, submitted that on the basis of a letter written by Jamis,
                                                                                  
            the father of the appellant and the respondent on 05.04.1994 (V ), the ownership of the said
                                                        1                         
            land was transferred to the respondent and the Register of Permits/Grants under the Land
            Development Ordinance was amended accordingly on 22.11.1994 (P ).     
                                                          5                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The said Register of Permits/Grants issued under the Land Development Ordinance had
                                                                                  
            recorded the transfer in the following terms:                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “fmd$m%$2298 orK ouS kd m;%fhys m%Odk ,dNshd j Q m,df; a    
                      f.or fcañia ñh f.dia we;s neúka tlS ouS kd m;%fha uq,a whs;hs
                                                                                  
                      Tyqf.a orejd jk m,df; a f.or fïrsj; S kñka mejruS ”         
                                                             .                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Learned Counsel for the respondent contended that he is relying on the document marked P
                                                                           5      
            and by that document the respondent has been recognized as the permit holder of the land
            in question. Since the respondent is in possession of the said land and that the permit
                                                                                  
            marked P was issued by the Divisional Secretary, Medirigiriya, learned Counsel for the
                   5                                                              
            respondent submitted that section 60 of the Land Development Ordinance would not be
            applicable in such a situation.                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                           3      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            One of the questions that arose before the District Court was whether the said document
            marked as P was a valid document in terms of the Land Development Ordinance.
                     5                                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The Land Development Ordinance was introduced in 1935 to provide for the systematic
            development and alienation of State land in the country. This Ordinance clearly specifies
                                                                                  
            inter alia, how permits and grants are to be issued, how dispositions are to be made and how
                                                                                  
            succession takes place.                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            It is not disputed that the deceased Palate Gedera Jamis was the original permit holder and
                                                                                  
            that the land in question was alienated under and in terms of the Land Development
                                                                                  
            Ordinance on 25.01.1982 (P ). Accordingly, succession to such land would be decided on the
                               3                                                  
            basis of the provisions laid down under the Land Development Ordinance. Chapter VII of the
            Land Development Ordinance deals with the successors to any land alienated on a permit or
                                                                                  
            a holding and section 60 refers to nomination or cancellation of such alienation.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            It is therefore evident that the learned District Judge of Polonnaruwa was correct when he
                                                                                  
            had decided that the question of succession and the validity of the document marked P
                                                                           5      
            should be considered on the basis of section 60 of the Land Development Ordinance.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The documents marked as P dated 17.06.1993, V dated 05.04.1994 and P which was
                                 4              1                  5              
            registered on 22.11.1994 all refer to the nomination of a successor to the original grant
            holder’s property.                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            In Madurasinghe v Madurasinghe ([1988] 2 Sri L.R. 142), it was held that the successor under
            the Land Development Ordinance has to be considered in terms of section 60 of the said
                                                                                  
            Ordinance. Accordingly it is apparent that the succession of the property alienated on a
                                                                                  
            permit in terms of the Land Development Ordinance has to be considered and decided on
            the basis of section 60 of the said Ordinance. The said section 60 is in the following terms:
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “No nomination or cancellation of the nomination of a       
                      successor shall be valid unless the document (other than a last
                                                                                  
                      will) effecting such nomination or cancellation is duly registered
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                           4      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      before the date of the death of the owner of the holding or the
                      permit-holder.”                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            It is not disputed that Palate Gedera Jamis had nominated the appellant and the respondent
            as his successors by his application made to the Divisional Secretary, Medirigiriya. On
                                                                                  
            17.06.1993 (P ), the Divisional Secretary, Medirigiriya had forwarded the said application to
                      9                                                           
            the District Land Registrar, Polonnaruwa to take necessary action. The said application
                                                                                  
            clearly states that its purpose was to ‘appoint a successor’. Based on that application the
            names of the appellant and the respondent were entered as successors of the said Jamis by
                                                                                  
            P dated 17.06.1993. It is also not disputed that the said Jamis had died on 25.05.1994 (P ).
             4                                                           10       
            The contention of the learned Counsel for the respondent was that by letter dated
            05.04.1994 (V ), the said Jamis had written to the Divisional Secretary, Medirigiriya
                      1                                                           
            requesting to nominate the respondent as his successor to the land in question. On the basis
                                                                                  
            of this document, the said respondent’s name had been entered in to the Register of
            Permits/Grants under the Land Development Ordinance (P ). The said registration has been
                                                    5                             
            effected on 22.11.1994.                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            According to section 60 of the Land Development Ordinance, referred to above, a
                                                                                  
            nomination would become effective, only if such nomination or cancellation is duly
                                                                                  
            registered before the date of the death of the owner of the holding or the permit-holder. It
                                                                                  
            is therefore quite obvious that the nomination of the respondent had been registered on a
            date several months after the death of the said Jamis, who was the permit-holder.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            It is therefore evident that it is necessary to apply the provisions contained in section 60 of
            the Land Development Ordinance to the facts of this case and the learned Judges of the High
                                                                                  
            Court had erred by failing to consider and apply section 60 of the said Ordinance.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The question on which leave to appeal was granted by this Court is therefore answered in
                                                                                  
            the affirmative.                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            For the reasons aforementioned this appeal is allowed. The order of the High Court dated
                                                                                  
            07.05.2008 is set aside and the judgment of the District Court of Polonnaruwa dated
                                                                                  
            24.10.2001 is thereby affirmed.                                       
                                                                           5      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            I make no order as to costs.                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Judge of the Supreme Court              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            N.G. Amaratunga, J.                                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      I agree.                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Judge of the Supreme Court              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Chandra Ekanayake, J.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      I agree.                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Judge of the Supreme Court              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                           6      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  