                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    IN THE SUPREME    COURT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC                   
                                                                                  
                          SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI LANKA                      
                           ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            S.C. Appeal No. 105A/2008                                             
            S.C. (Spl.) L.A. No. 166/2008                                         
                                                                                  
            H.C.A. No. 131/2005                                                   
            M.C. No. 61770                                                        
                                                                                  
                                     The Finance Company PLC,                     
                                     No. 97, Hyde Park Corner,                    
                                     Colombo 02.                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Claimant-Appellant-Appellant            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     Vs.                                          
                                                                                  
                                     1. Agampodi Mahapedige Priyantha Chandana,   
                                        Chandana Stores,                          
                                        Ginneliya,                                
                                        Urubokke.                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     2. Officer-in-Charge,                        
                                        Beliatta Police Station,                  
                                        Beliatta.                                 
                                                                                  
                                     3. Godagama Kumarasinghe Arachchige Jayadasa,
                                        Dammane Watta,                            
                                        Talawa,                                   
                                        Kariyamadiththa.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     4. Jasinghe Pathiranage Jinadasa,            
                                        Kudagal Ara Gedara,                       
                                        Kuda Bibula,                              
                                        Julampitiya,                              
                                        Weeraketiya.                              
                                                                                  
                                     5. Weerasinghe Arachchige Suranga Namal,     
                                                                                  
                                        No. 9, Udagama,                           
                                        Attanayala,                               
                                        Medamulana,                               
                                        Weeraketiya.                              
                                                                                  
                                     6. Hon. The Attorney-General,                
                                        Attorney General’s Department,            
                                        Colombo 12.                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          1       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Respondents-Respondents-Respondents     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            BEFORE    :    Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, J.                       
                           N.G. Amaratunga, J. &                                  
                           Chandra Ekanayake, J.                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            COUNSEL   :    I. S. de Silva with Suren de Silva for Claimant-Appellant-
                           Appellant                                              
                                                                                  
                           Riyaz Hamza, SSC, for 6th Respondent                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            ARGUED ON: 02.07.2009                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS                                                   
            TENDERED ON:   Claimant-Appellant-Appellant  :    16.07.2009          
                           6th Respondent-Respondent-Respondent : 15.07.2010      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            DECIDED ON: 30.09.2010                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, J.                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            This is an appeal from the order of the High Court dated 30.06.2008. By that order the High
                                                                                  
            Court had dismissed the appeal instituted by the claimant-appellant-appellant (hereinafter
            referred to as the appellant) and had affirmed the order of the learned Magistrate dated
                                                                                  
            25.08.2005.                                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The appellant came before this Court against the order of the High Court on which special
                                                                                  
            leave to appeal was granted on the following question:                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “Has the learned High Court Judge misdirected himself in fact
                      and in law in failing to appreciate that in view of the fact that
                                                                                  
                      there was no dispute between the parties that the appellant 
                                                                                  
                      was the absolute owner of the vehicle bearing registration No.
                                                                          2       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      227-8130, the scope of the inquiry in terms of Chapter XXXVIII
                      of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act before the Magistrate’s
                                                                                  
                      Court, was limited to ascertain whether or not the appellant
                                                                                  
                      was aware or that the said vehicle has been used in         
                      connection with or participated in the commission of the    
                                                                                  
                      offence.”                                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The facts of this appeal, as submitted by the appellant, albeit brief, are as follows:
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The appellant is a Registered Finance Company and is inter alia involved in providing leasing
                                                                                  
            facilities in connection with motor vehicles at the request of its customers. The appellant is
            the registered absolute owner of the vehicle bearing registration No. 227-8130, which forms
                                                                                  
            the subject matter of this appeal.                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            On 12.06.2000 at the request of the 1st respondent-respondent-respondent (hereinafter
                                                                                  
            referred to as the 1st respondent) the appellant had purchased and provided on lease the
                                                                                  
            vehicle, bearing registration No. 227-8130 to the 1st respondent. Unknown to the appellant,
            on 20.08.2000, the Beliatta Police had arrested the 3rd and/or 4th and/or 5th respondents-
                                                                                  
            respondents-respondents (hereinafter referred to as the 3rd and/or 4th and/or 5th
                                                                                  
            respondent) for transporting timber without a lawful permit, in terms of section 24(1)(b)
                                                                                  
            and section 25(2) of the Forest Ordinance. The Beliatta Police also seized the said vehicle
            bearing registration No. 227-8130, which had been used by the 3rd and/or 4th and/or 5th
                                                                                  
            respondent to transport the said timber. Thereafter the 2nd respondent-respondent-
                                                                                  
            respondent (hereinafter referred to as the 2nd respondent), had filed action in the
            Magistrate’s Court, Tangalle against the 3rd, 4th and 5th respondents in connection with the
                                                                                  
            said offence. The 3rd respondent had pleaded guilty to the charges, where the 4th and 5th
                                                                                  
            respondents had pleaded not guilty and the case was fixed for trial against the 4th and 5th
            respondents.                                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            On 16.08.2001 the 1st respondent, as the registered owner of the vehicle in question had
            made an application for the release of the said vehicle to the 1st respondent pending the
                                                                                  
            final determination of the trial. The appellant, being the absolute owner, agreed to the said
                                                                                  
            application of the 1st respondent in view of the undertaking by the 1st respondent to pay a
                                                                          3       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            sum of Rs. 150,000/- to the appellant in respect of the rentals outstanding under the Lease
            Agreement. The said vehicle was released to the 1st respondent on the undertaking given
                                                                                  
            by him to pay the appellant Rs. 150,000/- on or before 25.08.2001.    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The 1st respondent had failed to pay the said sum of Rs. 150,000/- and on 22.11.2001,
                                                                                  
            pursuant to the appellant bringing the said matter before the Magistrate’s Court, learned
                                                                                  
            Magistrate had directed the 1st respondent to handover possession of the vehicle in
                                                                                  
            question to the appellant, subject to certain terms and conditions. The vehicle in question
            was accordingly handed over to the appellant and the said vehicle remains in the custody of
                                                                                  
            the appellant.                                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            A confiscation inquiry had been held regarding the lorry bearing registration No. 227-8130
                                                                                  
            in terms of Chapter XXXVIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and after inquiry, by his
                                                                                  
            order dated 25.08.2005, learned Magistrate had ordered the confiscation of the said lorry.
            Aggrieved by this order, the appellant filed an application in revision (HCA/113/2005) in the
                                                                                  
            High Court of the Southern Province, holden in Hambantota. The appellant had also filed an
                                                                                  
            appeal in the High Court of Hambantota (HCA/131/2005). On 30.06.2008, learned Judge of
            the High Court made order dismissing the revision application (HCA/113/2005) and affirmed
                                                                                  
            the order of the learned Magistrate dated 25.08.2005. The learned Judge of the High Court
                                                                                  
            also made order dismissing the appeal (HCA/131/2005) for the same reasons given in the
                                                                                  
            order made on the Revision application. Being aggrieved by the order made by the learned
            Judge of the High Court of Hambantota in the appeal (HCA/131/2005), the appellant came
                                                                                  
            before this Court whereas with regard to the revision application he had filed an appeal in
                                                                                  
            the Court of Appeal, simultaneously.                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            When the application for special leave to appeal came up for support before this Court on
                                                                                  
            03.12.2008, this Court had taken into consideration that there were two orders made by the
            High Court of the Provinces, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction and its revisionary
                                                                                  
            jurisdiction. The Court also took notice of the fact that the appellant had filed applications
                                                                                  
            before the Court of Appeal regarding the order made in the revisionary application and
            before this Court on the basis of the High Court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
                                                                                  
            At that stage, learned Senior State Counsel had brought to the notice of this Court the
                                                                                  
            necessity to avoid multiplication of proceedings, as the appeal before the Court of Appeal
                                                                          4       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            could also come up for consideration in the Supreme Court by way of appeal. Accordingly,
            learned Counsel for the appellant had given an undertaking to withdraw the application
                                                                                  
            filed in the Court of Appeal regarding the order of the Provincial High Court on the basis of
                                                                                  
            the revision application (HCA/113/2005).                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Thereafter special leave to appeal had been granted by this Court on the basis of the order
                                                                                  
            made  by the Provincial High Court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction
                                                                                  
            (HCA/131/2005).                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The facts of this appeal were not disputed and it was common ground that the Beliatta
                                                                                  
            Police had instituted proceedings in the Magistrate’s Court of Tangalle against the 3rd, 4th
            and 5th respondents for transporting 63 logs of satinwood timber (Burutha) valued at Rs.
                                                                                  
            39,691.65 on 05.08.2001 without a lawful permit and thereby committing an offence
                                                                                  
            punishable in terms of section 24(1)b read with sections 25(2) and 40 of the Forest
            Ordinance, No 16 of 1907, as amended.                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Section 40 of the Forest Ordinance, as amended by Act Nos. 13 of 1966, 56 of 1979, 13 of
            1982 and 23 of 1995 states as follows:                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “(1) upon the conviction of any person for a forest offence –
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         a) all timber or forest produce which is not the property
                                                                                  
                           of the State in respect of which such offence has been 
                                                                                  
                           committed; and                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         b) all tools, boats, carts, cattle and motor vehicles,   
                                                                                  
                           trailers, rafts, tugs or any other mode of transport   
                           motorised or otherwise and all implements and          
                                                                                  
                           machines used in committing such offence whether       
                                                                                  
                           such tools, boats, carts, cattle, motor vehicles, trailers,
                           rafts, tugs, or other modes of transport motorised or  
                                                                                  
                           otherwise are owned by such person or not              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          5       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                           shall, by reason of such conviction be forfeited to the
                           State.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      (2) Any property forfeited to the State under sub- section (1)
                                                                                  
                         shall –                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         a) if no appeal has been preferred to the Court of Appeal
                                                                                  
                            against the relevant conviction, vest absolutely in the
                                                                                  
                            State with effect from the date on which the period   
                            prescribed for preferring an appeal against such      
                                                                                  
                            conviction expires;                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         b) if an appeal has been preferred to the Court of appeal
                                                                                  
                            against the relevant conviction, vest absolutely in the
                                                                                  
                            State with effect from the date on which such         
                                                                                  
                            conviction is affirmed on appeal.                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      In this sub-section ‘relevant conviction’ means the conviction
                                                                                  
                      in consequence of which any property is forfeited to the State
                      under sub-section (1)”.                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Learned Magistrate had considered the provisions laid down in section 40 of the Forest
            Ordinance as amended and had come to the conclusion that the Court has a discretion to
                                                                                  
            confiscate a vehicle after an inquiry, on the basis that the registered owner had given his
                                                                                  
            consent for the offence which had been committed and that the registered owner had the
            knowledge of such an offence. In considering the provisions of section 40 of the Forest
                                                                                  
            Ordinance and the decided cases, the learned Magistrate had been of the view that the
                                                                                  
            absolute owner had not been able to take every possible step to prevent the committing of
            the offence in question.                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            It is common ground that the absolute owner is a Finance Company and that the registered
                                                                                  
            owner had purchased the lorry in question on a Hire Purchase Scheme.  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          6       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            In Manawadu v Attorney-General ([1987] 2 Sri L.R.) 30) Sharvananda, CJ., had considered
            the applicability of sections 24(1)(b), 25(1) and section 40 of the Forest Ordinance, in a
                                                                                  
            matter where a load of rubber timber was transported in a lorry without a permit from an
                                                                                  
            authorised officer. After sentencing the accused, who had pleaded guilty, the learned
            Magistrate in that matter had ordered the confiscation of the lorry in which the timber was
                                                                                  
            alleged to have been transported. In considering the confiscation of the said lorry used for
                                                                                  
            the transport of illicit timber, in view of section 7 of the Act, No. 13 of 1982, by which
                                                                                  
            section 40 of the Forest Ordinance was amended, Sharvananda, CJ., in Manawadu v
            Attorney-General (supra) had held that,                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “By section 7 of Act No. 13 of 1982 it was not intended to  
                      deprive an owner of his vehicle used by the offender in     
                                                                                  
                      committing a ‘forest offence’ without his (owner’s) knowledge
                                                                                  
                      and without his participation. The word ‘forfeited’ must be 
                      given the meaning ‘liable to be forfeited’ so as to avoid the
                                                                                  
                      injustice that would flow on the construction that forfeiture of
                                                                                  
                      the vehicle is automatic on the conviction of the accused. The
                      amended sub-section 40 does not exclude by necessary        
                                                                                  
                      implication the rule of ‘audi alteram partem’. The owner of 
                                                                                  
                      the lorry not a party to the case is entitled to be heard on the
                                                                                  
                      question of forfeiture of the lorry, if he satisfies the court that
                      the accused committed the offence without his knowledge or  
                                                                                  
                      participation, his lorry will not be liable to forfeiture.  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The Magistrate must hear the owner of the lorry on the      
                                                                                  
                      question of showing cause why the lorry is not liable to be 
                                                                                  
                      forfeited. If the Magistrate is satisfied with the cause shown,
                      he must restore the lorry to the owner. The Magistrate may  
                                                                                  
                      consider the question of releasing the lorry to the owner   
                                                                                  
                      pending inquiry, on his entering into a bond with sufficient
                      security to abide by the order that may ultimately be binding
                                                                                  
                      on him.”                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          7       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Sharvananda, C.J., in Manawadu v Attorney-General (supra) had considered several
            decisions pertaining to the matter in question. Reference was made to the decision in
                                                                                  
            Inspector Fernando v Marther ((1932) 1 CLW 249), where Akbar, J., in construing section 51
                                                                                  
            of the Excise Ordinance that corresponds to section 40 of the Forest Ordinance had quoted
            with approval a statement by Schneider, J., in Sinnetamby v Ramalingam ((1924) 26 NLR
                                                                                  
            371), which was in the following terms:                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “Where an offence has been committed under the Excise       
                      Ordinance, no order of confiscation should be made under    
                                                                                  
                      section 51 of the Ordinance as regards the conveyance used to
                                                                                  
                      commit the offence, e.g. a boat or motor car unless two things
                      occur.                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      (1)  That the owner should be given an opportunity of       
                           being heard against it; and                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      (2)  Where the owner himself is not convicted of the        
                           offence, no order should be made against the owner,    
                                                                                  
                           unless he is implicated in the offence which render the
                                                                                  
                           thing liable to confiscation.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            In Inspector Fernando v Marther (supra) the vehicle in question did not belong to the
            accused, but was a vehicle, which was hired under a Hire Purchase Agreement. It was held
                                                                                  
            by Akbar, J., in Inspector Fernando v Marther (supra) that since the registered owner was
                                                                                  
            not implicated in the commission of the offence, no order confiscating the car could be
            made.                                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            In Mudankotuwa v Attorney-General ([1996] 2 Sri L.R. 77) the Court of Appeal had referred
            to the decision in Manawadu v Attorney-General (supra) with approval and had stated that
                                                                                  
            the owner of the vehicle, who is not a party to the case is entitled to be heard on the
                                                                                  
            question of forfeiture of the vehicle and if he satisfies the Court that the accused committed
                                                                                  
            the offence without his knowledge or participation, then his vehicle will not be liable to
            forfeiture. Reference was also made in Mudankotuwa v Attorney-General (supra) to the
                                                                                  
                                                                          8       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            decisions in Nizer v I.P. Wattegama ((1978-79) 2 Sri L.R. 304) and Faris v OIC, Police Station,
            Galenbindunuwewa ([1992] 1 Sri L.R. 167).                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            In Nizer v I.P. Wattegama (supra) Vythyalingam, J., considered the implications of the
            proviso to section 3A of the Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958 as amended. Section 3A of the
                                                                                  
            Animals Act states as follows:                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “Where any person is convicted of an offence under this Part
                      or any regulations made there under, any vehicle used in the
                                                                                  
                      commission of such offence shall, in addition to any other  
                                                                                  
                      punishment prescribed for such offence, be liable, by order of
                      the convicting Magistrate, to confiscation:                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      Provided however, that in any case where the owner of the   
                      vehicle is a third party, no order of confiscation shall be made,
                                                                                  
                      if the owner proves to the satisfaction of the Court that he has
                                                                                  
                      taken all precautions to prevent the use of such vehicle or that
                      the vehicle has been used without his knowledge for the     
                                                                                  
                      commission of the offence.”                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Vythyalingam, J., had observed that in view of this proviso, an order for confiscation could
            be made only if the owner was present at the time of the detection or there was evidence
                                                                                  
            suggesting that the owner was privy to the said offence. This decision was referred to with
                                                                                  
            approval in Faris v OIC, Police Station, Galenbindunuwewa (supra), where it was stated that
            in terms of the proviso to section 3A of the Animals Act, an order for confiscation cannot be
                                                                                  
            made if the owner establishes one of the following:                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 a)   that he has taken all precautions to prevent the use of the vehicle for the
                                                                                  
                      commission of the offence;                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 b)   that the vehicle had been used for the commission of the offence without his
                                                                                  
                      knowledge.                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          9       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            It is also worthy of note that in Faris, it was categorically stated that, in terms of the proviso
            to section 3A of the Animals Act, if the owner establishes any one of the above matters on a
                                                                                  
            balance of probability, an order for confiscation should not be made. 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            In Rasiah v Thambiraj ((1951) 53 NLR 574), the Court had considered the applicability of
                                                                                  
            section 40 of the Forest Ordinance with regard to an order made by a Magistrate in the
                                                                                  
            confiscation of a cart. Referring to the issue of confiscation, Nagalingam, J., in Rasiah v
                                                                                  
            Thambiraj (supra) had stated thus:                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “In these cases where the accused person convicted of the   
                                                                                  
                      offence is not himself the owner of the property seized, an 
                      order of confiscation without the previous inquiry would be 
                                                                                  
                      tantamount to depriving the person of his property without an
                                                                                  
                      opportunity being given to him to show cause against the    
                      order being made.”                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            In Manawadu v Attorney-General (Supra), Sharvananda, C.J., referring to the decisions by
            Justice Akbar and Justice Nagalingam in Fernando V Marther (supra) and Rasiah v
                                                                                  
            Thambiraj (supra) respectively, had come to the conclusion that the owner of the vehicle
                                                                                  
            would only have to show that the offence was committed without his knowledge and
                                                                                  
            without his participation.                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “Justice Akbar and Justice Nagalingam founded their decision
                                                                                  
                      on fundamental principles of constitutional importance and  
                      not on the narrow ground ‘shall be liable to confiscation’. 
                                                                                  
                      They emphasised that where the owner can show that the      
                                                                                  
                      offence was committed without his knowledge and without     
                      his participation in the slightest degree, justice demanded 
                                                                                  
                      that he should be restored his property” (emphasis added).  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Sharvananda, C.J., in Manawadu v Attorney-General (supra) had finally expressed the view
                                                                                  
            that,                                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         10       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “But if the owner had no role to play in the commission of the
                      offence and is innocent, then forfeiture of his vehicle will not
                                                                                  
                      be penalty, but would amount to arbitrary expropriation since
                                                                                  
                      he was not a party to the commission of any offence.”       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The appellant, as referred to earlier, is the absolute owner of the vehicle in question. The
                                                                                  
            appellant had leased it to the 1st respondent on a Hire Purchase Agreement. Section 433A
                                                                                  
            of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, as amended, deals with possession of property,
            which is the subject of a Hire Purchase Agreement. This section reads as follows:
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “(1) In the case of a vehicle let under a hire purchase or  
                           leasing agreement, the person registered as the        
                                                                                  
                           absolute owner of such vehicle under the Motor Traffic 
                                                                                  
                           Act shall be deemed to be the person entitled to       
                           possession of such vehicle for the purpose of this     
                                                                                  
                           Chapter.                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      (2)  In the event of more than one person being registered  
                                                                                  
                           as the absolute owner of any vehicle referred to in sub-
                                                                                  
                           section (1), the person who has been so registered first
                                                                                  
                           in point of time in respect of such vehicle shall be   
                           deemed to be the person entitled to possession of such 
                                                                                  
                           vehicle for the purposes of this Chapter.”             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The scope of section 433A of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act was considered in
                                                                                  
            Mercantile Investments Ltd. V Mohamed Mauloom and others ([1998] 3 Sri L.R. 32), where
                                                                                  
            it was stated that in terms of the said section 433A, an absolute owner is entitled to
            possession of the vehicle, even though the respondent had been given its possession on the
                                                                                  
            Lease Agreement.                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            On a consideration of the ratio decidendi of all the aforementioned decisions, it is
                                                                                  
            abundantly clear that in terms of section 40 of the Forest Ordinance, as amended, if the
                                                                                  
            owner of the vehicle in question was a third party, no order of confiscation shall be made if
                                                                         11       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            that owner had proved to the satisfaction of the Court that he had taken all precautions to
            prevent the use of the said vehicle for the commission of the offence. The ratio decidendi of
                                                                                  
            all the aforementioned decisions also show that the owner has to establish the said matter
                                                                                  
            on a balance of probability.                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            It is common ground that the learned Magistrate had held a confiscation inquiry in respect
                                                                                  
            of the lorry in question in terms of Chapter XXXVIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. It
                                                                                  
            is also common ground that the learned Magistrate had given an opportunity for the
            representation of the appellant, being the absolute owner, to give evidence at the said
                                                                                  
            inquiry and to tender to Court any relevant documents. At that inquiry, although the
                                                                                  
            representative of the appellant had taken the position that the vehicle in question was given
            to the 1st respondent on a Hire Purchase Agreement, he had not tendered the said
                                                                                  
            agreement to Court. Accordingly no steps were taken to mark the said document.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Learned Counsel for the appellant contended that the appellant, being the absolute owner
                                                                                  
            had neither participated nor had any knowledge of the commission of the offence in which
                                                                                  
            the vehicle was confiscated. Learned Counsel for the appellant referred to the evidence
            given by witness Percy Weeraratne, Assistant Manager (Matara Branch) of the appellant
                                                                                  
            Company. The said Assistant Manager had stated that the appellant Company had no
                                                                                  
            knowledge of the use of the vehicle and that the vehicle was in the Urubokka area and not
                                                                                  
            within the control of the appellant.                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      “fuu  jdykh  kS;s úfrdaë l%shdjlg mdúÉÑ lsrSug              
                                                                                  
                      wkque;sh oS, ;snqfka keye.                                  
                                                                                  
                      m%.  fuu  uq,H wdh;khg  fuu  kS;s úfrdaë oej                
                                                                                  
                           m%jdykh iïnkaOfhka hïlsis oekSula ;snqko?              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      W.   keye.                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                           . . . .                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         12       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      fuu kS;s úfrdaë l%shdjg fuu uKav,h wkque;sh ÿkafka          
                      keye.    fuu iud.fuka wkqn,hla oS, keye. fuu                
                      jdykh uf.a md,kh hgf;a ;snqfka keye. fuu jdykh              
                                                                                  
                      ;snqfka W!refndlal m%foaYfha. tu ksid fuu rshÿre            
                      úiska lrk l%shdjla .ek okafka keye.”                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Considering the provisions laid down in section 40(a) read with section 25(2) of the Forest
            Ordinance, would it be sufficient to merely state that the vehicle in question was not under
                                                                                  
            the control of the representative of the appellant? The answer to this question is purely in
                                                                                  
            the negative for several reasons.                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            As has been clearly illustrated by several decisions referred to above, it would be necessary
                                                                                  
            for the owner of the vehicle to establish that the vehicle that had been used for the
                                                                                  
            commission of the offence had been so used without his knowledge and that the owner had
            taken all precautions available to prevent the use of the vehicle for the commission of such
                                                                                  
            an offence.                                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Several measures could have been taken in this regard. For instance, there could have been
                                                                                  
            a clause to that effect in the agreement between the appellant and the 1st respondent.
                                                                                  
            Similarly if the 1st respondent had authorised others to use the said vehicle, he too could
            have had a written agreement inclusive of specified conditions. It is therefore quite clear
                                                                                  
            that it would be necessary for the owner to show that he has taken all possible precautions
                                                                                  
            to prevent the use of the vehicle for the commission of the offence.  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Learned Counsel for the appellant submitted that the burden is only on the registered
                                                                                  
            owner to satisfy Court that the accused has committed the offence without his knowledge
                                                                                  
            or participation and this will not be applicable to an absolute owner.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            As stated earlier, in Mercantile Investments Ltd. V Mohamed Mauloom and others (supra),
                                                                                  
            consideration was given to the rights of the absolute owner as well as the registered owner.
            In that matter the learned Magistrate had not given an opportunity to the absolute owner
                                                                                  
            to show cause before he made the order to confiscate the vehicle. On a consideration of
                                                                                  
            the said question, the Court of Appeal had held that it is not only the registered owner, but
                                                                                  
                                                                         13       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            the absolute owner also should be given notice on the inquiry in relation to the confiscation
            of the vehicle.                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            It is therefore apparent that both the absolute owner and the registered owner should be
            treated equally and there cannot be any type of privileges offered to an absolute owner,
                                                                                  
            such as a Finance Company in terms of the applicable law in the country. Accordingly, it
                                                                                  
            would be necessary for the absolute owner to show the steps he had taken to prevent the
                                                                                  
            use of the vehicle for the commission of the offence and that the said offence had been
            committed without his knowledge.                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            On a consideration of the aforementioned it is evident that the learned Magistrate had not
            erred when he held that the appellant had not satisfied Court that he had taken every
                                                                                  
            possible step to prevent the commission of the offence.               
                                                                                  
            As stated earlier, the High Court had affirmed the order made by the learned Magistrate.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            For the reasons aforesaid the question on which special leave to appeal was granted is
                                                                                  
            answered in the negative.                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            The judgment of the High Court dated 30.06.2008 is therefore affirmed. This appeal is
                                                                                  
            accordingly dismissed.                                                
                                                                                  
            I make no order as to costs.                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Judge of the Supreme Court              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            N.G. Amaratunga, J.                                                   
                                                                                  
                 I agree.                                                         
                                                                                  
                                          Judge of the Supreme Court              
                                                                                  
            Chandra Ekanayake, J.                                                 
                 I agree.                                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Judge of the Supreme Court              
                                                                                  
                                                                         14       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  