                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 IN THE SUPREME COURT  OF THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST               
                                REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                      In the matter of an Application for Special Leave to
                                      Appeal from the conviction and sentence of the
                                      Court of Appeal as per Judgement dated 8th  
                                      October 2002.                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                      Upali Dharmasiri Welaratne,                 
                                      No. 654/13, Halangahadeniya, Gothatuwa,     
                                      Angoda.                                     
                                                                                  
                                      Now at                                      
                                                                                  
                                      No. 57/14, Jayaweera Mawatha,               
                                                                                  
                                      Kotte.                                      
                                                                                  
                                      DEFENDANT-  RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT-          
                                      APPELLANT                                   
        S. C. Appeal No. 65/2003                                                  
        S. C. (Spl.) L. A. No. 271/2002                                           
        C.A. No. 312/1999             Vs-                                         
                                                                                  
        D.C. Colombo No. 18335/L                                                  
                                      Wesley Jayaraj Moses,                       
                                      No. 57/14 A, Jayaweera Mawatha,             
                                      Ethul-Kotte.                                
                                                                                  
                                      PLAINTIFF-PETITIONER-PETITIONER-            
                                      RESPONDENT                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        BEFORE             :     Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, J.,                
                                 Saleem Marsoof, P.C., J., &                      
                                 D. J. de S. Balapatabandi, J.                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        COUNSEL            :     L. C. Seneviratne, P.C. for the Defendant-Respondent-
                                 Respondent-Appellant.                            
                                                                                  
                                 Ransiri Fernando with Sarath Walgamage for the Plaintiff-
                                 Petitioner-Petitioner-Respondent.                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        ARGUED  ON         :      29-07-08 and 16-12-08                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS :    17-12-08 – Plaintiff-Petitioner-Petitioner-Respondent
                                 23-12-08–Defendant-Respondent-Respondent-Appellant
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          1                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        DECIDED ON         :     27-05-2009                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        MARSOOF,  J.                                                              
                                                                                  
        I have had the advantage of perusing the judgement prepared by my brother Balapatabandi,
        J., in draft, and I regret that I cannot agree with his findings, for the reasons outlined below.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        This appeal is against the decision of the Court of Appeal dated 8th October 1999, holding
        that the Defendant-Respondent-Respondent-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as “the
        Appellant”) is guilty of contempt of court, and imposing on him a sentence of 2 years
        rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 500,000/- along with a further term of 6 months
        rigorous imprisonment upon default thereof. The said conviction and sentence arose from
        the alleged violation of an undertaking given by the Appellant in the context of a revision
                                                                                  
        application filed by the Plaintiff-Petitioner-Petitioner-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as
        “the Respondent”) in the Court of Appeal challenging an order of the District Court of
        Colombo refusing an interim injunction to restrain the Appellant, his agents and servants
        from destroying the wall and roof of premises No. 57/14A, Jayaweera Mawatha, Ethul
        Kotte, Kotte belonging to the Respondent and continuing the construction of structures on
        or within the northern boundary of lot 2B in Plan No. 2451 dated 4th November 1986 made
        by N.E. Weerasooriya, Licenced Surveyor, on which the said premises is situated. Along
                                                                                  
        with the said revision application, the Respondent had also filed CA Leave to Appeal
        application bearing No. 47/99 seeking leave to appeal against the said order, which was
        pending at the time of the contempt inquiry.                              
                                                                                  
        After the Appellant filed his Objections dated 10th June 1999 with respect to the application
        to revise the said order of the District Court and the application for interim relief, the
        inquiry into the application for interim relief commenced on 22nd June 1999. At this inquiry,
                                                                                  
        Mr. A.K. Premadasa, P.C. with Mr. C.E. de Silva appeared for the Respondent and Mr.
        Harsha Soza appeared for the Appellant. As the inquiry could not be concluded on that
        date, it was adjourned for 30th June 1999, on which date, the matter was settled before the
        Court of Appeal by the following order:                                   
                                                                                  
             “Before :- Edussuriya, J., CP/CA                                     
                       Udalagama, J.                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             Same appearances as before.                                          
                                                                                  
             At this juncture, the Defendant-Respondent (present Appellant) undertakes not to
             effect further constructions and to maintain the status quo. The interim injunction is
             accordingly issued restraining the Defendant-Respondent from continuing to build
                                                                                  
             hereafter. ”                                                         
                                                                                  
        It is the violation of this undertaking / interim-injunction that was held by the Court of
        Appeal to be in contempt of court, which decision is the subject matter of this appeal. Before
        dealing with the specific questions on which leave to appeal was granted by the Supreme
        Court, which are fully set out in the judgment of my brother Balapatabendi, J., it is necessary
        to consider a question of fundamental importance which has been raised, namely, whether
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          2                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        the Court of Appeal gravely misdirected itself and exceeded its jurisdiction by issuing an
                                                                                  
        interim-injunction against the Appellant based on a general undertaking and without
        hearing both parties on the facts.                                        
                                                                                  
        Does the Violation of an Irregular Order Amount to Contempt?              
                                                                                  
        It has been strenuously contended on behalf of the Appellant that he cannot in law be found
        guilty of contempt of court since the issue of the interim injunction which the Appellant is
                                                                                  
        alleged to have violated, was irregular as the Court of Appeal had not heard both parties on
        the facts (either on affidavits, documents or oral evidence with consent). It may be noted at
        the outset that it is trite law, as was held in Silva v. Appuhamy 4 NLR 178, that “an injunction
        granted by a competent court must be obeyed by the party whom it affects until it is
        discharged, and that disobedience can be punished as for a contempt of court,
        notwithstanding irregularity in the procedure”. The competence of the Court of Appeal to
        issue an injunction by way of interim relief is well recognized. The Court of Appeal is vested
                                                                                  
        under Article 143 of the Constitution with jurisdiction to grant and issue injunctions to
        prevent any irremediable mischief that might ensue before a party making an application for
        such injunction could bring an action in any court of first instance to prevent the same. It
        also has appellate and revisionary jurisdiction in regard to decisions of courts of first
        instance such as the District Court, and has the power in terms of Article 145 of the
        Constitution, to revise any order of such a court issuing or refusing an injunction, whether
        interim or final. In terms of Rule 2 of the Court of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules, 1990,
                                                                                  
        the Court of Appeal also has the power to grant, in appropriate circumstances, a stay order,
        interim injunction or other interim relief, after notice and inquiry, and in cases of urgency
        even without such notice, provided the duration of the relief does not exceed two weeks.
                                                                                  
        In the instant case, the Court of Appeal had issued an interim-injunction after noticing the
        Appellant and after hearing submissions of his Counsel, except that it did not have to
        complete the inquiry for the grant of interim relief in view of the undertaking given by the
                                                                                  
        Appellant in open court on 30th June 1999. It is clear from the relevant journal entry that had
        the Appellant not given the said undertaking, the inquiry in regard to interim relief would
        have continued and the Court of Appeal would have made an order in terms of Rule 2 of the
        Court of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules, 1990, published in the Gazette Extraordinary
        of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 645/4 dated 15th January, 1991.
        The undertaking given to court by the Appellant effectively put an end to the inquiry into
        interim relief. When a party or counsel gives an undertaking in court, such undertaking
                                                                                  
        obviates the need to hold an inquiry, but such undertaking has exactly the same force as an
        order made by the court, and accordingly, it follows that the breach thereof amounts to
        contempt of court in the same way as a breach of an injunction. In de Alwis v. Rajakaruna 68
        NLR 180, where by majority decision the Supreme Court, the Respondent was held to be
        guilty of contempt of court by his failure to honor an undertaking given to court, Basnayake,
        C.J., at page 184 quoted with approval the following passage from Oswald on Contempt-
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             An undertaking entered into or given to the Court by a party or his counsel or
             solicitor is equivalent to and has the effect of an order of the Court, so far as any
             infringement thereof may be made the subject of an application to the Court to
             punish for its breach. The undertaking to be enforced need not necessarily be
             embodied in an order.”                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          3                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        As Sir John Donaldson MR observed in Hussain v. Hussain [1986] 1 All ER 961 at 963 -
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “Let it be stated in the clearest possible terms that an undertaking to the court is as
             solemn, binding and effective as an order of the court in the like terms.”
                                                                                  
        In the South African case of York Timbers Ltd v. Minister of Water Affairs & Forestry 2003 (4)
        SALR 477, at page 500 Southwood, J., having cited the above quoted dicta of Sir John
        Donaldson MR, stated that –                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “In my view there is no difference between the legal effect of an undertaking to do
             something or refrain from doing something which is made an order of court and the
             legal effect of an order to the same effect made by the court after considering the
             merits and giving judgment.”                                         
                                                                                  
        Thus, it is obvious that a party that has given an undertaking cannot be heard to say that an
                                                                                  
        interim-injunction has been issued without due hearing as the very purpose of giving such
        an undertaking is to save for the court as well as to the parties, valuable time that would
        otherwise be spent on the inquiry into the grant of interim relief. Nor is it open to such a
        party to later challenge the jurisdiction of the court if the party had voluntarily submitted
        himself or itself to the jurisdiction of court by the very act of giving the undertaking.
        Furthermore, where the solemn undertaking given to court is recorded as an order of court,
        it is the undertaking, and not the order of court that requires the giver of the undertaking to
                                                                                  
        act in accordance with its terms. The power of the Court of Appeal to punish for contempt of
        itself, whether committed in the court itself or elsewhere, as well as its power to punish for
        the contempt of any other court, tribunal or institution referred to in Article 105(1)(c) of the
        Constitution is enshrined in Article 105(3) of the Constitution, and as Samarakoon, C.J.,
        observed in Regent International Hotels Ltd. v. Cyril Gardiner and Others [1978-79-80] 1 Sri LR
        278 at page 286 -                                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “The Supreme Court “being the highest and final Superior Court of Record in the
             Republic” and the Court of Appeal being a Superior Court of Record with appellate
             jurisdiction have all the powers of punishing for contempt, wherever committed in
             the Island in facie curiae or ex facie curiae.”                      
                                                                                  
        The submission that the Court of Appeal had acted in excess of its jurisdiction in treating the
                                                                                  
        violation of such an undertaking as a contempt of court, is therefore, altogether devoid of
        merit.                                                                    
                                                                                  
        Admissibility of Photographic Evidence                                    
                                                                                  
        The first of the questions on which leave to appeal has been granted by this Court, relates to
        the very interesting issue of admissibility of photographic evidence, which at the time of the
                                                                                  
        admission of the photographs in question, were governed by the provisions of the Evidence
        Ordinance No. 14 of 1895 (CLE 1956 Official Ed. Cap. 14, as amended by Act No. 10 of 1988,
        No. 33 of 1998, No. 32 of 1999 and No. 29 of 2005 and supplemented by The Evidence
        (Special Provisions) Act No.14 of 1995). The question is: Did the Court of Appeal err in
        placing reliance on the dates appearing on the photographs produced by the Respondent at
        the contempt inquiry? The said dated photographs were produced by the Respondent
        marked P7 to P18 at the contempt inquiry held on 20th July 2001 to show that the Appellant
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          4                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        had acted in disregard of the undertaking given by him to court on 30th June, 1999. These
                                                                                  
        photographs, which contain imprints of dates ranging from 2nd July to 17th July 1999 on
        which dates it is alleged that the Appellant continued with the building operations which he
        had undertaken to discontinue and maintain the status quo pending the hearing of the
        revision application filed in the Court of Appeal, are of great value in deciding on the guilt
        or otherwise of the Appellant.                                            
                                                                                  
        The Appellant, who at that stage contempt inquiry conducted his own defence without the
                                                                                  
        assistance of counsel (prior to Mr. Sanath Jayathilake appeared as his counsel), took
        objection to the production of the said dated photographs marked P7 to P18 on the ground
        that they were not admissible as “documents” under the Evidence Ordinance. The Court of
        Appeal made order overruling the said objection and admitting the photographs “subject to
        proof”. With the view to proving the said photographs, the Respondent called witness
        Roshan Seneviratne, the Manager of Salaka Group, who testified that the said photographs
        were developed at his establishment, and produced marked P7a to P18a respectively, the
                                                                                  
        negatives of the said photographs. When President‟s Counsel for the Respondent closed his
        case on 16th May 2002, he moved to read in evidence the said photographs and the
        negatives, without any objection thereto being taken on behalf of the Appellant. As was
        observed by Samarakoon, C.J., in Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Another v. Jugolinija-Boal East
        [1981] 1 Sri LR 18, at page 24 “if no objection is taken, when at the close of a case documents
        are read in evidence, they are evidence for all purposes of the law. This is the cursus curiae
        of the original civil courts”.                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Mr. L.C. Seneviratne, P.C., who appeared for the Appellant in this appeal, reformulated the
        objection against the admission of the photographs marked P7 to P18 on the basis that the
        Court of Appeal, which has placed reliance on the dates appearing on the photographs, has
        failed to consider that the date imprint on the photographs taken in the camera belonging to
        the Respondent could have been manipulated through the controls of the camera. A
        photograph, according to the Oxford Concise English Dictionary, is “a picture made by a
                                                                                  
        camera, in which an image is focused onto film and then made visible and permanent by
        chemical treatment.” All cameras, ranging from the earliest “pin hole” cameras to the
        modern film or digital cameras, operate on the same principle, namely that the light
        gathered from a scene or object that is photographed can be used to create an image on a
        light sensitive medium such as a film or a charge-couple-device (CCD) of a modern digital
        camera. A photograph is essentially a conversion or transformation of a contemporaneous
                                                                                  
        recording which is made through mechanical or electronic means.           
                                                                                  
        Photographs, and other forms of contemporaneous recordings, have been admissible in
        evidence in Sri Lanka despite the limitations of Section 3 of the Evidence Ordinance which
        confined its definition of “evidence” to oral and documentary evidence. Our courts have
        utilized other provisions of the Ordinance, such as the second proviso to Section 60, which
        empowered the court to require any material thing that is referred to in oral testimony to be
                                                                                  
        produced in court for its inspection, and Section 165, which empowered court to order the
        production in court of any thing, to admit in evidence, contemporaneous recordings of
        public speeches (Abu Bakr v. The Queen, 54 NLR 566; Kularatne and Another v. Rajapakse, [1985]
        1 Sri LR 24), telephone conversations preserved through wire or a tape recording (See, In re
        S.A.Wickremasinghe 55 NLR 511, K.H.M.H.Karunaratne v. The Queen, 69 NLR 10; Cf, Roberts
        and Another v. Ratnayake and Others, [1986] 2 Sri LR 36) and photographs (Shahul Hameed and
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          5                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Another v. Ranasinghe and Others [1990] 1 Sri LR 104 and Peiris and Another v. Perera and
                                                                                  
        Another [2002] 1 Sri LR 128).                                             
                                                                                  
        Of course, like any thing else, contemporaneous recordings too could be manipulated, and
        hence it is necessary to take precautions with the view to preventing or detecting such
        possibilities, but the attitude of our courts in regard to such matters have generally been
        permissive rather than prohibitive. As Canakeratne, J., once observed in The King v.
        Dharmasena, 50 NLR 505 at 506, while assessing the value of photographic evidence
                                                                                  
        produced in court, -                                                      
                                                                                  
             “It may be that, cameras do lie (e.g., one not held at eye-level, one with a long focus
             lens, &c.), but one does not dispense with all witnesses because there are perjurers. If
             real evidence (e.g., a knife) can be brought, why not a photograph? If a jury may
             view a scene, why not a photograph of the scene?”                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        It is important to note that at the time of the conduct of the contempt inquiry, the production
        of photographic evidence was governed by the provisions of Section 4 of the Evidence
        (Special Provisions) Act No. 14 of 1995. Section 4 (1) of the said Act provides that in any
        proceeding where direct oral evidence of a fact would be admissible, “any contemporaneous
        recording or reproduction thereof, tending to establish that fact” shall be admissible as
        evidence of that fact, if it is shown that -                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             (a) the recording or reproduction was made by the use of electronic or mechanical
                means;                                                            
                                                                                  
             (b) the recording or reproduction is capable of being played, replayed, displayed or
                reproduced in such a manner so as to make it capable of being perceived by the senses;
                                                                                  
             (c) at all times material to the making of the recording or reproduction the machine or
                                                                                  
                device used in making the recording or reproduction, as the case may be, was
                operating properly, or if it was not, any respect in which it was not operating
                properly or out of operation, was not of such a nature as to affect the accuracy of
                the recording or reproduction; and                                
                                                                                  
             (d) the recording or reproduction was not altered or tampered with in any manner
                                                                                  
                whatsoever during or after the making of such recording or reproduction, or that
                it was kept in safe custody at all material times, during or after the making of such
                recording or reproduction and that sufficient precautions were taken to prevent
                the possibility of such recording or reproduction being altered or tampered with,
                during the period in which it was in such custody.                
                                                                                  
        It is expressly provided in Section 4 (2) of the Act that if the conditions set out in Section 4
                                                                                  
        (1) are satisfied, “the recording or reproduction shall be admissible in evidence of the fact
        recorded or reproduced, whether or not such fact was witnessed by any person.” It is also provided
        in Section 4 (3) of the Act that where any such recording or reproduction cannot be played,
        replayed, displayed or reproduced in such a manner so as to make it capable of being
        perceived by the senses, or even if it is capable of being so perceived but is unintelligible to a
        person not conversant in a specific science, or is of such nature that it is not convenient to
        perceive and receive in evidence, in its original form, the court may admit in evidence “a
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          6                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        transcript, translation, conversion or transformation” of such recording or reproduction as may
                                                                                  
        be appropriate and is intelligible and is capable of being perceived by the senses.
                                                                                  
        Modern cameras are more electronic than mechanical, but that makes no difference as
        regards the underlying law that is applicable in regard to the production in court of
        photographs taken using such cameras, whether they be dated or not. Mr. Seneviratne has
        submitted that the date on a camera can be changed with ease, and that the camera with
        which the photographs marked P7 to P18 were taken should have been produced in court.
                                                                                  
        The procedure for the production in legal proceedings of evidence derived from
        contemporaneous recordings is set out in Part III of the Evidence (Special Provisions) Act,
        and in particular in Section 7(1) (a) thereof, which requires that a party “proposing to tender
        such evidence shall, not later than forty-five days before the date fixed for inquiry or trial
        file or cause to be filed, in court, after notice to the opposing party, a list of such evidence as
        is proposed to be tendered by that party, together with a copy of such evidence or such
        particulars thereof as is sufficient to enable the party to understand the nature of the
                                                                                  
        evidence.” According to Section 7(2), a party who fails to give notice as aforesaid, shall
        subject to the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 of the Act, not be permitted to tender such
        evidence in respect of which the failure was occasioned.                  
                                                                                  
        Section 7(1) (b) of the Act specifically provides that any party to whom a notice has been
        given under Section 7(1) (a) “may within fifteen days of the receipt or such notice apply to
        the party giving such notice, to be permitted access to, and to inspect-  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             (i) the evidence sought to be produced ;                             
                                                                                  
             (ii) the machine, device or computer, as the case may be, used to produce the evidence;
                 and                                                              
                                                                                  
             (iii) any records relating to the production of the evidence or the system used in such
                                                                                  
                 production.”                                                     
                                                                                  
        The Act also specifies an outer time limit of fifteen days for a party proposing to produce
        such evidence to provide a reasonable opportunity to the party against whom such evidence
        is sought to be produced or his agents or nominees, “to have access to, and inspect, such
        evidence, machine, device, computer, records or systems.” The procedure so laid down in
                                                                                  
        the Act is intended to give an opportunity for a party against whom the evidence is sought
        to be produced to challenge the same on the ground that it is not an accurate recording or
        reproduction of what it purports to be.                                   
                                                                                  
        At not time in these proceedings has the Appellant objected to the production of the
        photographs marked P7 to P18 on the ground that the notice contemplated by Section 7(1)(a)
        of the Evidence (Special Provisions) Act of 1995 has not been given to the Appellant, and no
                                                                                  
        submissions in these lines were addressed to court in the Court of Appeal or before this
        Court. However, I have given my mind to this question, and I hold that the Appellant had
        notice of the fact that the Respondent was relying on the dated photographs marked P7 to
        P18 in the contempt proceedings when notice of the Respondent‟s petition dated 21st July
        1999, by which he complained to the Court of Appeal of the alleged contempt, was served
        on him. In paragraph 11 of the affidavit of the Respondent dated 20th July 1999 attached to
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          7                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        the said petition, the Respondent has specifically listed the said photographs in the
                                                                                  
        following manner:                                                         
                                                                                  
             “I attach hereto marked C and D photographs showing the construction being carried
             on 2-7-1999 and photograph marked E showing the position of the building on 4-7-
             1999 and photographs marked F, G, H and I taken on 5-7-1999 showing the
             construction done on 5-7-1999, marked J, K, showing the construction done on 15-7-
             1999, marked L and M showing the construction done on 17-7-1999 and plead them
                                                                                  
             as part and parcel hereof.”                                          
                                                                                  
        The said Petition was supported before Edussuriya, J., on 30th July 1997, and the Court
        directed the issue of summons on the Appellant for 17th August 1999. On that date, the
        Appellant appeared in person and moved for a further date, and the matter was re-fixed for
        15th October 1999. On 15th October 1999, the chargers were read out to the Appellant who
        pleaded not guilty to the said charges. After several inquiry dates and calling dates, the
                                                                                  
        contempt inquiry ultimately commenced before a Bench of the Court of Appeal consisting of
        Shiranee Tilakawardane, J., and Chandradasa Nanayakkara, J., on 20th July 2001. During the
        one year period that elapsed between the filing of the Petition dated 21st July 1999 and the
        commencement of the contempt inquiry, the Appellant made no effort to move Court for
        permission to examine the camera used for the purpose of taking the photographs in
        question, as he was entitled to do in terms of Section 7 (1) (b) (ii) of the Evidence (Special
        Provisions) Act 1995.                                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        In the circumstances, and for the reasons outlined above, I am of the opinion that the
        Appellant is not entitled to take any objections to the admissibility of the said photographs
        at the appeal stage of this case. Accordingly, I am of the opinion that the Court of Appeal
        has not erred in placing reliance on the dates appearing on the photographs produced by the
        Respondent.                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Proof of Contempt                                                         
                                                                                  
        The next four questions on which this Court has granted leave to appeal relating to the
        burden and standard of proof may, for convenience, be considered together. These questions
        are –                                                                     
                                                                                  
             (i)  Has the Respondent discharged the burden of proof placed upon him in this
                                                                                  
                  inquiry?                                                        
                                                                                  
             (ii) Have their Lordships‟ of the Court of Appeal erred in accepting the evidence
                  led on behalf of the Respondent?                                
                                                                                  
             (iii) Have their Lordships‟ of the Court of Appeal erred in rejecting the evidence
                                                                                  
                  led on behalf of the Petitioner (Appellant)?                    
                                                                                  
             (iv) Have their Lordships‟ of the Court of Appeal erred in taking to consideration
                  extraneous factors / material in convicting and sentencing the Petitioner
                  (Appellant)?                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          8                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The Appellant was charged in the Court of Appeal for committing contempt of court on 1st
                                                                                  
        July 1999, 2nd July 1999, 4th July 1999, 5th July 1999, 15th July 1999, 16th July 1999 and 17th July
        1999 by effecting further constructions and continuing to build after 30th June 1999 in
        premises bearing Assessment No. 57/14, Jayaweera Mawatha, Ethul Kotte, Kotte thereby
        damaging premises bearing Assessment No. 57/14A, Jayaweera Mawatha, Ethul Kotte,
        Kotte “on the northern side.” This charge is essentially one of civil contempt, which is an
        „offence‟ of a private nature since it thereby deprived the Respondent of the benefit of the
        undertaking given to court by the Appellant, and the interim injunction granted by the
                                                                                  
        Court of Appeal on 30th June 1999 at the instance of the Respondent.      
                                                                                  
        The line between civil and criminal contempt is a thin one indeed. The distinction was
        explained by Barrie and Low in The Law of Contempt, (3rd Ed – Butterworths, at page 655) as
        follows :                                                                 
                                                                                  
             “Criminal contempts are essentially offences of a public nature comprising
                                                                                  
             publications or acts which interfere with the due course of justice as, for example, by
             tending to jeopardise the fair hearing of a trial or by tending to deter or frighten
             witnesses or by interrupting court proceedings or by tending to impair public
             confidence in the authority or integrity of the administration of justice. Civil
             contempts, on the other hand, are committed by disobeying court judgements or
             orders either to do or to abstain from doing particular acts, or by breaking the terms
             of an undertaking given to the court, on the faith of which a particular course of
                                                                                  
             action or inaction is sanctioned, or by disobeying other court orders (for example not
             complying with an order for interrogatories, etc). ”                 
                                                                                  
        While the need for society to preserve the rule of law and protect the rights of its citizen as
        well as those of the State lies at the heart of both civil and criminal contempt, the distinction
        between the two types of contempt, though clear in theory, is one which may often be
        difficult to make in the context of the peculiar circumstances of each case in which it may
                                                                                  
        become necessary to determine whether a particular act amounts to a criminal or civil
        contempt. One of the reasons for this difficulty is that there is a punitive element even in
        cases of civil contempt, for it must be remembered that the law of contempt as a whole is
        concerned to uphold the due administration of justice, and it is obvious that disregard of a
        court order not only deprives the other party of the benefit of that order but also impairs the
        effective administration of justice. As Cross, J., said in Phonographic Performance Ltd. v.
                                                                                  
        Amusement Caterers (Peckham) Ltd. [1964] Ch 195 at 198 :                  
                                                                                  
             “Where there has been wilful disobedience to an order of the court and a measure of
             contumacy on the part of the defendants, then civil contempt, what is called contempt
             in procedure, “bears a two-fold character, implying as between the parties to the
             proceedings merely a right to exercise and a liability to submit to a form of civil
             execution, but as between the party in default and the state, a penal or disciplinary
                                                                                  
             jurisdiction to be exercised by the court in the public interest”.”  
                                                                                  
        Although the contempt, the Appellant has been charged and convicted of is civil in nature, it
        is clear that the applicable standard of proof is that applicable to criminal cases. As Lord
        Denning MR observed in RE Bramblevale Ltd. [1970] Chancery 128, at 137 –  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          9                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “A contempt of Court is an offence of a criminal character. A man may be sent to
                                                                                  
             prison for it. It must be satisfactorily proved. To use the time-honoured phrase, it
             must be proved beyond all reasonable doubt. It is not proved by showing that, when
             the man was asked about it, he told lies. There must be further evidence to
             incriminate him. Once some evidence is given, then his lies can be thrown into the
             scale against him.”                                                  
                                                                                  
        On appeal, this Court is called upon to examine whether the Respondent has discharged the
                                                                                  
        burden placed on him to prove, beyond reasonable doubt, that the Appellant violated the
        solemn undertaking given by him to court, and / or the interim injunction imposed by
        Court, and whether the Court of Appeal took into consideration extraneous factors or
        material in convicting and sentencing the Appellant. It is however necessary to bear in
        mind, that in doing so, that the applicable standard of proof does not require that the guilt
        of the Appellant should be established beyond any and every shade of doubt, but only
        beyond doubts which may be called reasonable.                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        At the contempt inquiry before the Court of Appeal, the Respondent personally gave
        evidence, and led the evidence of Roshan Seneviratne, the Manager of Salaka Group, and
        that of Dr. George Nelson Perera, a close neighbour. The Appellant was the only witness for
        the defence. The Court of Appeal, in my opinion, has carefully analyzed all evidence and
        arrived at the conclusion that the guilt of the Appellant has been established beyond a
        reasonable doubt. In convicting the Appellant, the Court of Appeal has observed that-
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
             “On the consideration of the totality of the evidence and the documents filed in the
             revision application, including the pleadings referring to the District Court action and
             the orders, this Court is in no doubt whatsoever that the construction was carried out
             as complained by the Plaintiff-Petitioner-Petitioner (present Appellant).”
                                                                                  
        The required elements for a finding of civil contempt are (1) the existence of an undertaking
                                                                                  
        or order; (2) knowledge of the undertaking or order; (3) ability to comply with the
        undertaking or order; and (4) willful or contumacious disobedience of the undertaking or
        order. It has been submitted by the learned President‟s Counsel for the Appellant that his
        client had no knowledge of the content of the undertaking / order as a copy thereof was not
        formally served on him. It is, however, material that in this case the undertaking was given
        on behalf of the Appellant by his Counsel when the inquiry into interim relief resumed after
                                                                                  
        an adjournment, and the wording of the relevant journal entry makes it obvious that the
        Appellant was consulted by his Counsel before the undertaking was given. The undertaking
        given to court, and the consequent interim-injunction, were in the following terms:-
                                                                                  
             At this juncture, the Defendant-Respondent (present Appellant) undertakes not to
             effect further constructions and to maintain the status quo. The interim injunction is
             accordingly issued restraining the Defendant-Respondent from continuing to build
                                                                                  
             hereafter. ”                                                         
                                                                                  
        The Respondent, in his testimony, has categorically stated that the Appellant was in the
        precincts of the Court, and was consulted by his Counsel Mr. Harsha Soza, before the
        undertaking was given, which has been denied by the Appellant, who in the course of his
        evidence denied that he was in court, although he could not remember where he was when
        the case was taken up in the Court of Appeal. Significantly, the Appellant who did not call
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                         10                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Mr. Soza to testify on his behalf, did admit that after he became aware of the undertaking
                                                                                  
        given to court on his behalf by his Counsel, he verified the “specifics” of the undertaking
        and order from the Registry of the Court within three days. The Appellant‟s testimony in
        this regard, under cross-examination, is quoted below:-                   
                                                                                  
            “Q : You came to know from Mr. Harsha Soza that an undertaking has been given and
              interim injunction has been issued restraining the Defendant-Respondent (present
              Appellant) from continuing to build?                                
                                                                                  
            A : I asked him. He told me that there was an order against me.       
            Q : You never asked him what is the order against you? And the Court of Appeal has
              issued an order against you?                                        
            A : I found it subsequently. About two or there days thereafter from the Registry.
            Q : Till two or three days after 30.6.1999 you did not know what is the order ? Is that
              correct ?                                                           
            A : Yes. The specifics of the order.”                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        It is manifest that on his own admission, at least by 4th July, 1999 the Appellant was aware of
        the nature and content of the undertaking given by Counsel on his behalf, and the interim-
        injunction issued by the court, and should have moved the court if there was any lack of
        clarity or ambiguity in it. Prior to complaining about the alleged violation of the
        undertaking / interim-injunction by the Appellant to the Court of Appeal, the Respondent
        has contemporaneously complained to the Welikada Police, and with his petition dated 21st
                                                                                  
        July 1999 filed in the Court of Appeal, he has produced marked A and B respectively copies
        of the complaints he made to the Police on 1st July 1999 and 5th July 1999, which were
        subsequently marked in evidence as P5 and P6. The particulars of the damage caused to the
        house of the Respondent are set out in P6 the relevant portion of which is quoted below:
                                                                                  
             “99’06’30 jk osk f.dvke.Sï yd boslsrSï kj;k f,ig wNshdpkd wOslrkh u.ska ;Skaÿjla oS,d
             we;’ tal fuu Wmd,s O¾uisrs fjs,dr;ak hk wh jsiska kej; udf.a ksji wi, boslsrSï lrf.k hkjd’
             ta boslsrSï lrk tajd iïnkaOj uu f*dfgda wrf.k ;sfnkjd’ fuu boslsrSï lrk jsgoS udf.a ksjfia
                                                                                  
             jy,h weianeiafgdaia ISÜ folla levS we;’ tys jgskdlu re’ 1500$ la muK fjs’ jy,hg oud
             we;s wvs 40 l muk ;dr ISÜ ;ekska ;ek levS we;’ tajdfha jgskdlu re’ 1600$ la muK fjs’
             we,auSkshï ng folla” ;dr ISÜ Wv oud ;snqkd’ wvs 10 la wvs 9 la muk os. ta folo fuu
             boslsrSï l, fiajlhka fofokd wrf.k we;’ tys jgskdlu re’ 700$ la muK fjs’ uqÿka W¿ leg
             y;rla muK levS we;’ tys jgskdlu re’ 50$ la muK fjs’ uq,q jgskdlu re’ 3800$ la muK fjs’
             ;jo udf.a jy,h Wv Tjqka jsiska boslsrSï ksid isfuka;a ;Ógq .Kka jegS we;’ fuu ksid udf.a
             ksji we;=,g j;=r .,d f.k tkjd’ fuu Wmd,s O¾uisrs fjs,dr;ak hk wh jsiska l=,shg wrf.k kï
             fkdokakd jev lrk fofokd udf.a jy,h Wv isg ;ud fuu ;dmamh n|skafka’ fuu ug w,jx.=j
             Wiaid urK njg ;¾ckh lr jy,fhka neye,d .shd’ udf.a bvfuka wvshl m%udKhla muK w,a,d
             f.k ;uhs fuu ;dmamh bos lrkafka’ wo osk oj,a 12’15 g muk ;ud uu ksjig wdfjs’ ta tk jsg
             ;ud jy,h Wv isgskjd uu oelafla’ udj oel,d ;uhs ;¾ckh lr neye,d .sfha’ fuu jy,h Wv
             isgskjd udf.a nsrs| jk tÉ’ iS’ ndnqIka hk who oelald’ udf.a ÿj ksjfia isgshd thd t,shg
             wejs;a ke;’ fus iïnkaOg uu by; kvq ijrd we;s wOslrK ;=kg jd¾:d lrus’ ud fmd,sisfhka
             b,a,d isgskafka wOslrK ksfhda.h mrsos Wmd,s O¾uisrs fjs,dr;ak hk wh jsiska boslsrSï
             lrk tl kj;d fok f,ig yd ug jS;sfhk w,dNh iïnkaOj ls%hd ud¾.hla .kakd f,igh’ ug lSug
             we;af;a tmuKhs’”                                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        By the time of making the above-quoted statement to the Police, it is apparent that the
        Respondent had taken some photographs, and he has testified that he did so in accordance
        with the instructions he received from his lawyer, and he has produced in the course of the
        contempt inquiry marked P7 to P18, these and the subsequent photographs he took, with
                                                                                  
                                         11                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        date imprints, which clearly show that the work at the building site had been continued
                                                                                  
        after the Appellant gave his solemn undertaking to court on 30th June 1999, and even after
        he admittedly perused the court record, and got the “specifics” of the interim-injunction
        issued by the Court of Appeal at most three days thereafter.              
                                                                                  
        The position of the Appellant, at least at the initial stage of the contempt inquiry, was that he
        was not the owner of premises No. 57/14, Jayaweera Mawatha, Ethul Kotte, Kotte, and that
        it was owned by his son and that the he had nothing to do with the building operations
                                                                                  
        there. However, later in his testimony, under cross-examination, he admitted that he used to
        go there to see the constructions to give directions on behalf of his son who was abroad. It is
        also significant that the Appellant when he testified in the contempt inquiry denied that the
        building shown in the photographs P7 to P18 was his house, or the house in which he
        resided, and had stressed that none of the photographs showed the assessment number of
        the house, but when the Respondent and Dr. Perera testified no questions were put to them
        on these lines. Although the Appellant was at pains to show that he has nothing to do with
                                                                                  
        the premises in which the building operations were alleged to have taken place, he led no
        evidence whatsoever to show that he lived in another premises located in some other place.
        He did admit in cross-examination that he made complaints to the Mayor and to the Central
        Environmental Authority on the nuisance caused by the poultry farm owned by the
        Respondent, but if he was not residing at premises No. 57/14, Jayaweera Mawatha, Ethul
        Kotte, Kotte, the question naturally arises as to how he came to do so, if the Appellant was
        not living in the very same premises in which the building operations were alleged to have
                                                                                  
        taken place.                                                              
                                                                                  
        Mr. L.C. Seneviratne, P.C has sought to assail the conviction of the Appellant on the basis
        that the photographs marked P7 to P18 were wrongfully admitted in evidence, which
        question has been dealt with by me fully earlier in this judgment. He has also submitted
        that the said photographs, in any event, did not show the site on which the building
        operations allegedly took place in violation of the undertaking / order of court, namely the
                                                                                  
        building bearing assessment No. 57/14, Jayaweera Mawatha, Ethul Kotte, Kotte which is to
        the north of the Respondent‟s house bearing No. 57/14A, Jayaweera Mawatha, Ethul Kotte,
        Kotte, the two premises having one common boundary which is the northern boundary of
        the Respondent‟s house and the southern boundary of the site on which the building
        operations were alleged to have taken place. Mr. Seneviratne further submitted that the
        photographs did not prove beyond reasonable doubt that the Appellant destroyed “the roof
        and wall on the Northern side of premises depicted as Lot 2B in Plan No. 2451 dated 04/11/1986
                                                                                  
        made by A. E. Wijesuriya, Licensed Surveyor, bearing Assessment No. 57/14A, Jayaweera Mawatha,
        Ethul Kotte, Kotte, and constructed structures on the northern side in the said premises.”
                                                                                  
        It is pertinent to note that the undertaking given to court by the Appellant and the interim-
        injunction issued by court did not specifically refer to the “northern side of the premises”
        although there is reference to same in the pleadings before the District Court. What the
        Appellant had undertaken was not to effect further constructions and to maintain the status quo.
                                                                                  
        The interim-injunction issued by the Court of Appeal was to restrain the Appellant “from
        continuing to build hereafter.” It is abundantly clear from the testimony of the Appellant and
        that of Dr. George Nelson Perera that the Appellant did continue building operations on
        northern side of the Respondent‟s premises which is the southern side of the neighbouring
        premises in which the Appellant admittedly resides. The allegations have been denied by
        the Appellant, who was the sole witness for the defence in the contempt inquiry, and the
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                         12                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        Court of Appeal has rejected his testimony as being mutually inconsistent and altogether
                                                                                  
        unconvincing. The Court of Appeal has also held that the Appellant had the ability to
        comply with the undertaking he gave to court and the interim injunction issued by court,
        and that he had acted in willful or contumacious disobedience of the said undertaking and
        order.                                                                    
                                                                                  
        In this context, it is important to bear in mind the following oft-quoted words of Viscount
        Simon from the decision of the House of Lord in Watt v. Thomas [1947] 1 All E. R. 582, at
                                                                                  
        pages 583 which were cited with approval by the Privy Council in Munasinghe v. Vidanage 69
        NLR 97-                                                                   
                                                                                  
             “………….an  appellate Court has, of course, jurisdiction to review the record of the
             evidence in order to determine whether the conclusion originally reached upon that
             evidence should stand; but this jurisdiction has to be exercised with caution. If there
             is no evidence to support a particular conclusion (and this is really a question of law)
                                                                                  
             the appellate court will not hesitate so to decide. But if the evidence as a whole can
             reasonably be regarded as justifying the conclusion arrived at the trial, and especially
             if that conclusion has been arrived at on conflicting testimony by a tribunal which
             saw and heard the witnesses, the appellate Court will bear in mind that it has not
             enjoyed this opportunity and that the view of the trial judge as to where credibility
             lies is entitled to great weight. This is not to say that the judge of first instance can be
             treated as infallible in determining which side is telling the truth or is refraining from
                                                                                  
             exaggeration. Like other tribunals, he may go wrong on a question of fact, but it is a
             cogent circumstance that a judge of first instance, when estimating the value of verbal
             testimony, has the advantage (which is denied to Courts of Appeal) of having the
             witnesses before him and observing the manner in which their evidence is given”.
                                                                                  
        In this case, the Court of Appeal, having heard evidence placed before it by the Respondent
        and the Appellant, has come to certain findings having regard to the demeanor of witnesses,
                                                                                  
        and the Supreme Court, sitting in appeal, will be extremely reluctant to review these
        findings. The time tested principle guiding our courts in these matters as enunciated by
        James L.J. in The Sir Robert Peel, 4 Asp. M. L. C. 321, at 322 and quoted with approval by
        Viscount Sankey L.C in Powell and Wife v. Streatham Manor Nursing Home [1935] AC 243 at
        248, is that an appellate court-                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            “will not depart from the rule it has laid down that it will not over-rule the decision of
            the Court below on a question of fact in which the Judge has had the advantage of
            seeing the witnesses and observing their demeanour unless they find some governing
            fact which in relation to others has created a wrong impression.”     
                                                                                  
         I bow to the wisdom of this dictum, and only wish to add that I did not find any governing
        fact which in relation to others might have created a wrong impression in the Court of
                                                                                  
        Appeal. Accordingly, I am of the opinion that there is paucity of material even to suggest
        that the Court of Appeal has erred with regard to the discharge of the burden placed by law
        on the Respondent to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the Appellant committed
        contempt of court by his conduct, and in particular, I hold that questions (i), (ii) and (iii)
        have to be answered against the Appellant.                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                         13                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        As regards, question (iv) on which leave was granted, learned President‟s Counsel for the
                                                                                  
        Appellant has invited the attention of this Court to page 2 of the judgement of the Court of
        Appeal wherein it has been stated that “the Plaintiff-Petitioner-Petitioner instituted an
        action against the Defendant-Respondent-Respondent, an attorney-at-law…..” He has
        stressed that the proceedings before the Court of Appeal were not initiated against the
        Appellant in his capacity as attorney-at-law, and the manner in which the Appellant has
        been referred to in the judgement of the Court of Appeal, suggests that the said Court has
        taken into consideration extraneous factors / material in convicting and sentencing the
                                                                                  
        Appellant. In my view, the description of the Appellant by reference to his vocation, which
        in my opinion is a very noble and responsible profession, does not demonstrate any
        prejudice on the part of the court, particularly in the context that the Appellant had denied
        prior knowledge of the content of the undertaking which was given to Court by his Counsel,
        for the violation of which he had been charged. Accordingly, I am of the opinion that
        question (iv) also has to be answered against the Appellant.              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        The Punishment                                                            
                                                                                  
        There remains the question whether the sentence of imprisonment and fine imposed on the
        Appellant is excessive and / or contrary to law.                          
                                                                                  
        No submissions have been addressed to Court on the lawfulness or otherwise of the said
        sentence, and the only ground urged for the mitigation of the sentence of imprisonment is
                                                                                  
        the advanced age of the Appellant. It has been submitted that he was 63 years of age at the
        time of his conviction, and that in any event, the sentence imposed is excessive. Contempt of
        court has been described as an offence sui generic, and there is no statutory or other limits on
        the punishment that may be imposed on an offender, it being a matter entirely for the court
        imposing the same. The Court of Appeal, when sentencing the Appellant, has given its mind
        to all the circumstances of this case, and I have no reason to interfere with the sentence so
        imposed.                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
        I would therefore, dismiss the appeal, but without costs.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                           JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                         14                                       
                                                                                  