                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                   In The Supreme   Court of the Democratic  Socialist            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                 Republic  of Sri Lanka                           
                                                                                  
                                  _________________                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            SC Appeal 87/2008                                                     
                                                                                  
            SC(HCCA)LA 78/2008            In the matter of an appeal with         
            SP/HCCALA 01/2007             leave to appeal granted by              
            DC Ratnapura 2129/L           the Supreme Court.                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Kodituwaku Arachchige Somapala,         
                                          Karapincha, Hidallana.                  
                                          Petitioner-Respondent-Appellant         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Vs.                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          Nanda Pethiyagoda Wanasundara,          
                                          96/1, No.4, 5th Lane, Colombo 7.        
                                          Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent-       
                                                                                  
                                          Petitioner-Respondent                   
                                                                                  
                                     1.   K.A.Piyadasa,                           
                                                                                  
                                          Karapincha Pahala Korale, Hidallana.    
                                     2.   Kodituwakku Arachchige Podimahattaya.   
                                          Karapincha, Hidellana.                  
                                                                                  
                                     3.   O.B. Punchi Menike,                     
                                          Karapincha, Hidellana.                  
                                          Defendants-Respondents-                 
                                                                                  
                                          Respondents                             
                                                                                  
            Before    :    Amaratunga J.                                          
                           Marsoof J.                                             
                                                                                  
                           Ekanayake J.                                           
                                                                                  
            Counsel   :    Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe P.C. with                        
                                                                                  
                           Rasika Dissanayake for the Petitioner-Respondent-Appellant.
                           Gamini Marapana PC. with R.Y.D. Jayasekera for the     
                           Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent-Petitioner-Respondent.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Argued on :    18. 05. 2010                                           
            Decided on :   04. 11. 2010                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                           1      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Gamini Amaratunga  J.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      This is an appeal, with leave to appeal granted by this Court, against
                                                                                  
            the Judgment of the Civil Appellate High Court of the Sabaragamuwa Province
                                                                                  
            dated 19.6.2008 in a leave to appeal application filed in that Court by the
                                                                                  
            Substituted Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as Substituted
            Plaintiff). Before I set out the questions of law on which leave to appeal was
                                                                                  
            granted by this Court, it is relevant and necessary to set out in brief the factual
                                                                                  
            background relevant to the present appeal and the matters this Court would
                                                                                  
            eventually take into account in dealing with this appeal.             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The original plaintiff (who died during the pendency of the action)
                                                                                  
            in the District Court, Ratnapura case No.2129/L sought a declaration of title in
                                                                                  
            his favour to an undivided 1/3 of the land described in the schedule to his
                                                                                  
            amended  plaint dated 24.2.1983 and an order to eject the defendants, their
                                                                                  
            servants and agents from the said land. The land referred to in the said amended
                                                                                  
            plaint was 7A-2R-30P in extent, depicted as lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Plan No. 388
                                                                                  
            dated 16th October 1978 made by D.W. Ranatunga Licensed Surveyor.     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The plaintiff's action was finally decided by the Supreme Court by
                                                                                  
            its judgment dated 28.03.2003 declaring that the substituted plaintiff is entitled
                                                                                  
            to an undivided 1/3 share of the land described in the schedule to the amended
                                                                                  
            plaint dated 24.02.1983 which is in extent A7-R2-P30, depicted in Plan No.388 of
                                                                                  
            Surveyor D.W. Ranatunga.                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      Thereafter on the application made by the substituted plaintiff, the
                                                                                  
            District Court issued writ to eject the defendants from the land in suit. The Fiscal
                                                                                  
            in executing the writ obtained the services of a licensed surveyor to demarcate
                                                                                  
            on the ground the boundaries of lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 depicted in plan No.388 of
                                                                           2      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Surveyor Ranatunga. After the Surveyor marked the boundaries of the land
                                                                                  
            referred to in the writ the 1st and the 3rd defendants vacated the land and
                                                                                  
            possession of the land was then handed over to the authorized representative of
                                                                                  
            the substituted plaintiff.                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      At the time of handing over possession of the land, the petitioner-
                                                                                  
            appellant, who is a son of 1st and 2nd defendants (but not a party to D.C. case
                                                                                  
            No.2129/L) complained to the Fiscal that the Surveyor in marking the  
                                                                                  
            boundaries of the land in suit had included a part of the land belonging to him in
                                                                                  
            the land to be delivered to the substituted plaintiff in terms of the writ. The
                                                                                  
            fiscal had then informed him that he (Somapala, the appellant) could persue his
                                                                                  
            legal remedy to obtain relief. This is recorded in the Fiscal's Report.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      Thereafter the petitioner-appellant filed an application in the
                                                                                  
            District Court of Ratnapura under and in terms of section 328 of the Civil
                                                                                  
            Procedure Code alleging that in executing the writ relating to the substituted
                                                                                  
            plaintiff's land, he was dispossessed and evicted from the land he held and
                                                                                  
            possessed on his own right. After filing the said application, the appellant moved
                                                                                  
            for a commission to survey the land claimed by the appellant and the land
                                                                                  
            described in the plaint of the substituted plaintiff's case. The learned District
                                                                                  
            Judge allowed the application for the commission and decided to proceed with
                                                                                  
            the inquiry into the 328 application filed by the appellant.          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The substituted plaintiff then filed a leave to appeal application in
                                                                                  
            the Civil Appellate High Court of the Sabaragamuva Province against the order of
                                                                                  
            the learned District Judge to issue a commission and to proceed with the inquiry
                                                                                  
            into the 328 application of the appellant. The Civil Appellate High Court issued
                                                                                  
            an interim order suspending the execution of the Commission and holding the
                                                                                  
            inquiry into the 328 application. Thereafter having granted leave to appeal and
                                                                           3      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            after hearing arguments, the Civil Appellate High Court allowed the substituted
                                                                                  
            plaintiff's appeal and set aside the order of the learned District Judge issuing the
                                                                                  
            commission and fixing the 328 application for inquiry.                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The order of the Civil Appellate High Court dated 19.6.2008 allowing
                                                                                  
            the substituted plaintiff's appeal indicates that the said court came to the
                                                                                  
            conclusion that the appellant had failed to establish that he was dispossessed of
                                                                                  
            or ejected from any land in executing the writ and that dispossession of or
                                                                                  
            ejectment from any land other than the land referred to in the writ did not fall
                                                                                  
            within the purview of section 328 of the Civil Procedure Code and that the
                                                                                  
            appellant's proper remedy is to file a separate action to vindicate his rights.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      On 31st July 2008, the appellant filed a leave to appeal application
                                                                                  
            in this Court seeking leave to appeal against the Order of the Civil Appellate High
                                                                                  
            Court allowing the appeal of the substituted plaintiff.               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      On  01.08.2008 (the day after the filing of the leave to appeal
                                                                                  
            application in the Supreme Court) the 328 application was called in the District
                                                                                  
            Court of Ratnapura with notice to the parties to announce the order made by
                                                                                  
            the Civil Appellate High Court on 19.06.2008. The certified copy of the journal
                                                                                  
            entry of the District Court Record on 01.08.2008 (Document W2 filed by the
                                                                                  
            substituted plaintiff) indicates that on 01.08.2008, the District Judge terminated
                                                                                  
            the proceedings in the 328 inquiry on the basis that in terms of the order in
                                                                                  
            appeal (of the Civil Appellate High Court) an inquiry under and in terms of
                                                                                  
            section 328 is not relevant. There is nothing in the journal entry of 01.08.2008 to
                                                                                  
            indicate that at the time the District Court made order terminating the
                                                                                  
            proceedings in the 328 inquiry, the Court was informed that an application for
                                                                                  
            leave to appeal against the order of the Civil Appellate High Court has already
                                                                                  
            been filed in the Supreme Court on the previous day i.e.31.7.2008.    
                                                                           4      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      There is another journal entry dated 12.8.2008 which states that an
                                                                                  
            Attorney-at-law filed the appellant Somapala's petition and affidavit and moved
                                                                                  
            to have the case called on 14.8.2008 for support. There is nothing before this
                                                                                  
            Court to indicate the purpose or the contents of the petition referred to in this
                                                                                  
            journal entry.                                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      According to the journal entry of 14.08.2008 when the case was
                                                                                  
            called on that day the Court was informed by the Attorney-at-law for the
                                                                                  
            appellant that an application had been made to the Supreme Court against the
                                                                                  
            decision of the Provincial High Court. In the said journal entry there is no record
                                                                                  
            of any order made by the District Court on that date.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The appellant thereafter filed in this Court an amended petition
                                                                                  
            dated 21.8.2008. In paragraph 20 of the amended petition it is stated that "on
                                                                                  
            1st August 2008 the learned District Judge made order terminating the 
                                                                                  
            proceedings on the basis of the said judgment of the Civil Appellate High Court.
                                                                                  
            The petitioner states that consequent upon the same, the petitioner lodged an
                                                                                  
            application to the District Court under section 839 of the Civil Procedure Code
                                                                                  
            but the same was not supported in view of this application pending before Your
                                                                                  
            Lordships' Court."                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      From the above quoted averment in the amended leave to appeal
                                                                                  
            application it is clear that the petition of the appellant referred to in the journal
                                                                                  
            entry of 12.08.2008 was not supported in the District Court and as such the
                                                                                  
            District Court has not made any order thereon.                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The amended leave to appeal application contained a prayer "that
                                                                                  
            the order made on 01.08.2008 by the learned District Judge be set aside".
                                                                           5      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The leave to appeal application was supported in this Court on
                                                                                  
            16.10.2008 and the journal entry of that date indicates that what was supported
                                                                                  
            on that date was the original leave to appeal application dated 30.07.2008 and
                                                                                  
            not the amended leave to appeal application filed subsequently which included
                                                                                  
            a prayer to set aside the Order of the District Court dated 1.8.2007. This Court
                                                                                  
            has granted leave to appeal on the following questions of law set out in the
                                                                                  
            leave to appeal application dated 30.7.2008.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 (i)   Whether the Honourable Judges of the Civil Appellate High Court
                                                                                  
                      have erred in law by failing to take into consideration that a
                                                                                  
                      commission can be issued in any action or proceeding in which the
                                                                                  
                      court deems a local investigation to be a requisite or proper for the
                                                                                  
                      purpose of elucidating any matter in dispute?               
                                                                                  
                 (ii)  Whether the Honourable Judges of the Civil Appellate High Court
                                                                                  
                      have erred in law when arriving at a conclusion that in an instance
                                                                                  
                      where a person is ejected at the time of executing a decree no need
                                                                                  
                      arises for a survey plan?                                   
                                                                                  
                 (iii) Whether the Honourable Judges of the Civil Appellate High Court
                                                                                  
                      have misinterpreted the provisions of section 328 of the Civil
                                                                                  
                      Procedure Code?                                             
                                                                                  
                 (iv) Whether the Honourable Judges of the Civil Appellate High Court
                                                                                  
                      have erred in law by arriving at a conclusion that the petitioner has
                                                                                  
                      not been dispossessed when the plan or the sketch submitted by
                                                                                  
                      the Commissioner clearly shows the fact that the respondent has
                                                                                  
                      been placed in possession in land in extent more than 9 acres
                                                                                  
                      instead of 7 acres 2 roods and 30 perches?                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                           6      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                           In addition to the above questions of law this Court has
                                                                                  
            granted leave to appeal on the following additional questions of law. 
                                                                                  
                 (v)   In view of the amendment to section 328 of the Civil Procedure
                                                                                  
                      Code by omitting the words "that it was not comprised in the
                                                                                  
                      decree" and in view of the omission of the said words in the current
                                                                                  
                      section 328 of the Civil Procedure Code can a person claiming to be
                                                                                  
                      ejected from a land other than the land that was the subject matter
                                                                                  
                      of the decree come to court in terms of section 328 claiming that he
                                                                                  
                      was ejected from such land.                                 
                                                                                  
                 (vi)  In view of the fact that this leave to appeal application has been
                                                                                  
                      made  in respect of an order made in a proceeding which is  
                                                                                  
                      incidental to the main 328 application and since the main 328
                                                                                  
                      application has now been terminated in the District Court can the
                                                                                  
                      petitioner maintain this appeal.                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      Both parties have filed written submissions on the aforesaid
                                                                                  
            questions of law and at the hearing both learned President's Counsel made oral
                                                                                  
            submissions.                                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The last question to be considered in this appeal is with regard to
                                                                                  
            the maintainability of this appeal. As already stated, in view of the decision of
                                                                                  
            the Provincial Appellate High Court that the appellant’s remedy is not under
                                                                                  
            section 328 of the Civil Procedure Code the District Court of Ratnapura on
                                                                                  
            01.08.2008 terminated the proceedings in the application filed by the appellant
                                                                                  
            in terms of section 328 of the Civil Procedure Code. The appellant has not taken
                                                                                  
            steps by way of an appeal or revision to get the order dated 01.08.2008 set aside
                                                                                  
            and to have his application restored as a pending case. Thus for all intents and
                                                                                  
            purposes, there is no pending application to which the decision of this appeal
                                                                                  
            would be of any practical importance. Even if this Court allows the appellant's
                                                                           7      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            appeal and restores the Order made by the District Court on 8.3.2007 (which
                                                                                  
            was the subject matter of the leave to appeal application filed in the Provincial
                                                                                  
            Appellate High Court) yet there is no application in the District Court which can
                                                                                  
            be proceeded with as a result of the decision of this appeal.         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      This Court, in an appeal will not consider and pronounce its decision
                                                                                  
            on a question of law unless such decision has a practical significance to a
                                                                                  
            pending case or a concluded case. (Which in law is subject the decision of this
                                                                                  
            Court in appeal) This Court will not decide a question of law merely as an
                                                                                  
            academic exercise when such decision has no relevance to a legal proceeding
                                                                                  
            pending in any other court as a live legal proceeding not deemed to have been
                                                                                  
            finally concluded until the decision of this Court in appeal is delivered.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      In the course of the argument this Court pointed out to the learned
                                                                                  
            President's Counsel for the appellant that in view of the termination of the
                                                                                  
            proceedings relating to the 328 application filed by the appellant in the District
                                                                                  
            Court of Ratnapura, this appeal has become a mere academic exercise without
                                                                                  
            any practical effect.                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      The learned President's Counsel agreed, that as the matters now
                                                                                  
            stand there is no application pending in the District Court of Ratnapura.
                                                                                  
            However the learned President’s Counsel submitted that if the appeal is decided
                                                                                  
            in favour of the appellant, then he moves this Court to make an order ( in order
                                                                                  
            to prevent great prejudice that would otherwise result in to the detriment of
                                                                                  
            the appellant) setting aside the order of the District Court of Ratnapura on
                                                                                  
            01.08.2008 terminating the proceedings in relation to the application filed by
                                                                                  
            him in that Court under and in terms of section 328 of the Civil Procedure Code.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                           8      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      This Court is not in a position to consider the submission made by
                                                                                  
            the learned President's Counsel for the appellant relating to the consequential
                                                                                  
            order to set aside the order of the District Court of Ratnapura dated 01.08.2008
                                                                                  
            for several reasons. Firstly, it is not an order the appellant has sought from this
                                                                                  
            Court. Even if the appellant has sought such an order from this Court, it is an
                                                                                  
            order this Court cannot make in this appeal as the matter before this Court is the
                                                                                  
            correctness of the decision of the Civil Appellate High Court and not the order
                                                                                  
            made by the District Court of Ratnapura on 01.08.2008.                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      In the amended petition filed in this Court on 21.08.2008, there was
                                                                                  
            a prayer, among other reliefs, to set aside the order of the District Court of
                                                                                  
            Ratnapura on 01.08.2008. However this amended petition was not supported
                                                                                  
            before this Court, perhaps for the reason that the appellant was aware that it
                                                                                  
            was not a relief he could seek from this Court in these proceedings. Secondly the
                                                                                  
            appellant has not moved the appropriate Court by way of appeal or revision to
                                                                                  
            have the order of the District Court of Ratnapura dated 01.08.2008 set aside. He
                                                                                  
            has not given any reason for his                                      
                                                                                  
            failure to exercise his right to have the Order of the District Court set aside.
                                                                                  
            Without pursuing his legal remedies he cannot now urge that if that order is not
                                                                                  
            set aside by this Court great prejudice would be caused to him. He himself is
                                                                                  
            responsible for the consequences flowing from his own failure to assert his
                                                                                  
            rights available to him under the law to have the order dated 1.8.2008 set aside.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      In view of the appellant's failure to pursue his legal remedies to
                                                                                  
            have the Order of the District Court of Ratnapura dated 01.08.2008 set aside,
                                                                                  
            there is no legal proceeding now in existence and as such the appellant has no
                                                                                  
            right to maintain this appeal as a mere academic exercise devoid of any practical
                                                                                  
            result to flow from the decision of this appeal.                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                           9      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                      In view of this finding I answer question No.(VI) in the negative and
                                                                                  
            in consequence the necessity to decide and pronounce upon questions No.(I) to
                                                                                  
            (v) on which leave to appeal has been granted does not arise. Accordingly the
                                                                                  
            appeal is dismissed without costs.                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     Judge of the Supreme Court                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Marsoof J.                                                            
                                                                                  
                 I agree.                                                         
                                                                                  
                                     Judge of the Supreme Court                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            Ekanayake J.                                                          
                                                                                  
                 I agree.                                                         
                                                                                  
                                     Judge of the Supreme Court                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          10      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  