                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
           IN THE  SUPREME     COURT    OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC      SOCIALIST          
                                                                                    
                              REPUBLIC    OF SRI  LANKA                             
                             ------------------------------------------------------ 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            S.C. (Appeal) No. 82/2009                                               
            S.C. (H.C.) C.A. L.A. No. 35/2009                                       
                                                                                    
            SP/HCCA/Kag/248/2007(F)                                                 
            D.C. Mawanella No. 529/L                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                     Dheerasingha Arachchige Saroja Nisansala,      
                                                                                    
                                     “Kumari”, Attanagalla,                         
                                     Nittambuwa                                     
                                                                                    
                                     presently at Vagollahena, D 27, Gonagala,      
                                     Devanagala.                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          Defendant-Appellant-Appellant             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                     Vs.                                            
                                                                                    
                                     John Laurence Rose Aberfoyle,                  
                                                                                    
                                     F K 8, 3 TD, Scotland,                         
                                     United Kingdom                                 
                                                                                    
                                     Presently of Dubai Cable Company Pvt. Ltd., P.O.
                                     Box 11529, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            BEFORE    :    Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, J.                         
                           K. Sripavan, J. &                                        
                                                                                    
                           S. I. Imam, J.                                           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       1            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            COUNSEL   :    Rohan Sahabandu for Defendant-Appellant-Appellant        
                                                                                    
                           P.K.T. Perera for Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            ARGUED  ON:    10.06.2010                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS                                                     
                                                                                    
            TENDERED ON:   Defendant-Appellant-Appellant : 31.08.2010               
                           Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent : 02.09.2010             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            DECIDED ON:    28.06.2011                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, CJ.                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            This is an appeal from the judgment of the Provincial High Court (Civil Appeal) of the
                                                                                    
            Sabaragamuwa Province holden in Kegalle dated 27.01.2009. By that judgment learned
                                                                                    
            Judges of the High Court had dismissed the appeal of the defendant-appellant-appellant
            (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) and affirmed the judgment of the learned
                                                                                    
            District Judge of Mawanella dated 03.09.2004, which had granted the reliefs prayed for
                                                                                    
            by the plaintiff-respondent-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff-
            respondent). The appellant preferred an application before this Court for which leave
                                                                                    
            to appeal was granted.                                                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            At the stage of hearing both learned Counsel agreed that the appeal could be argued on
                                                                                    
            the basis of the following questions:                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 1. Could the plaintiff-respondent in the circumstances of the case, plead a
                    constructive trust?                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       2            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 2. Is the trust alleged by the plaintiff-respondent contrary to the provisions in
                                                                                    
                    sections 4(1) and 98 of the Trusts Ordinance?                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The facts of this appeal, as submitted by the appellant, albeit brief, are as follows:
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The appellant had been in Dubai where she had been working in several houses on an
                                                                                    
            hourly basis and had stayed at the plaintiff-respondent’s house. At that place she had
                                                                                    
            not paid any rent, and in lieu of rent she had helped to clean the garden for two hours
            which belonged to the plaintiff-respondent. The appellant submitted that, during that
                                                                                    
            period the plaintiff-respondent had a close intimacy with the appellant. When the
                                                                                    
            appellant returned to Sri Lanka, the plaintiff-respondent had agreed to purchase a land
            and a house for the appellant and he had accordingly carried out the said purchase and
                                                                                    
            had gifted it to her. The appellant further submitted that the plaintiff-respondent had
                                                                                    
            purchased the said land for the benefit of the appellant.               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The plaintiff-respondent contended that the appellant had worked for him as a
                                                                                    
            domestic-aid and he had given her the money to purchase a property on his behalf. He
                                                                                    
            further contended that he had no intention to grant the beneficial interest of the
            property in question to the appellant and therefore she holds the land in trust in favour
                                                                                    
            of the plaintiff-respondent. It was also submitted that the plaintiff-respondent had
                                                                                    
            requested the appellant through his nominee to transfer the said land, which had been
            refused by the appellant and that since 01.06.1998, she had been in possession of the
                                                                                    
            said land.                                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Having stated the facts of this appeal and the position of the appellant and the plaintiff-
                                                                                    
            respondent, let me now turn to consider the two questions on which leave to appeal
                                                                                    
            was granted by this Court.                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       3            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The two questions referred to earlier, clearly indicate that the issue in question is as to
            whether a purchase of a property by a third party for and on behalf of a foreigner,
                                                                                    
            allegedly in order to evade the payment of 100% tax on the sale, could create a
                                                                                    
            constructive trust on the basis of sections 4(1) and 98 of the Trust Ordinance.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            It is not disputed that the land in question was brought in the name of the appellant. It
                                                                                    
            is also not disputed that the proceeds for the purchase of the said land was provided by
                                                                                    
            the plaintiff-respondent. The contention of the learned Counsel for the appellant was
            that at the time the appellant returned to Sri Lanka, the plaintiff-respondent had agreed
                                                                                    
            to purchase a property for her and therefore the said purchase was a gift from the
                                                                                    
            plaintiff-respondent to the appellant. The learned Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent
            relied on the documents marked as P1 and P2 and contended that the necessary funds
                                                                                    
            for the purchase of the land belonged to the plaintiff-respondent as he had obtained
                                                                                    
            money from a joint account he had with his wife and to show her that it was a different
            transaction he had obtained the appellant’s signature to a letter whereby she had
                                                                                    
            agreed to re-transfer the land to a nominee of the plaintiff-respondent. The appellant
                                                                                    
            submitted that a copy of the said letter was not given to the appellant.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The appellant had stated that she had never promised to transfer the land in the name
                                                                                    
            of the plaintiff-respondent and that she had spent over Rs. 2,000,000/- to renovate the
                                                                                    
            house. She had also cultivated the land in question and she had assessed the
            improvements made to the house and to the land for Rs. 3,000,000/-.     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The plaintiff-respondent stated that the land in dispute was purchased in the name of
            the appellant by Deed No. 386 dated 12.07.2004 attested by S.L.M. Halish, Notary
                                                                                    
            Public. He had paid the consideration amounting to Rs. 2,760,000/- as referred to in the
                                                                                    
            Deed and also had paid Rs. 170,662.50 as survey fees, Notaries fees and Stamp Duty etc.
            It was also submitted that he had purchased the said land in the name of the appellant
                                                                                    
            as since he is a foreigner he would have to pay 100% as Tax. His intention was to form a
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       4            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            company in Sri Lanka and thereafter to transfer the said land in the name of the
            company. He had not been able to form a company with the approval of the Board of
                                                                                    
            Investment of Sri Lanka. However, before the execution of the said Deed he had
                                                                                    
            obtained a letter from the appellant agreeing to re-transfer the property in question
            either to the plaintiff-respondent or to his nominee.                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The document P1 is the Deed of Transfer No. 386, dated 01.06.1998 attested by S.L.M.
                                                                                    
            Halish, Notary Public. The schedule to the said Deed refers to lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Plan
            No. 3851, dated 09.07.1993 made by K.S. Panditharatne of Kegalle, Licensed Surveyor.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The document P2 dated 29.05.1998 is an undertaking by the appellant to transfer the
            land either in the name of the company to be incorporated in Sri Lanka or in the name
                                                                                    
            of any person nominated by the plaintiff-respondent. The said document is as follows:
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      “29th May 1998                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      I, DEERASING ARACHCHIGE SAROJA NISANSALA of                   
                      “Kumari”, Attanagalle Road, Nittambuwa, do hereby             
                                                                                    
                      declare and state that I received a sum of RUPEES TWO         
                                                                                    
                      MILLION SEVEN HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND (Rs.                 
                                                                                    
                      2,760,000/-) from JOHN LAWRENCE ROSE of Ducab, Dubai          
                      Cable Company Limited, Dubai to purchase a land, on           
                                                                                    
                      behalf of the said JOHN LAWRENCE ROSE, at Gonawala            
                                                                                    
                      and depicted as Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Plan No. 3851 dated     
                      9.7.1993 made by K. S. Panditharatne, Licensed Surveyor.      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      I further undertake and agree that, on the instructions of    
                      the said JOHN LAWRENCE ROSE, to transfer the said land        
                                                                                    
                      in the name of the company to be incorporated in Sri          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       5            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      Lanka or in the name of any persons nominated by the          
                      said JOHN LAWRENCE ROSE.”                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            It was on the basis of the aforementioned document that the plaintiff-respondent had
            pleaded a constructive trust. A trust creates a situation where one person holds
                                                                                    
            property for the benefit of another. Describing the concept of trust, Dr. L.J.M. Cooray
                                                                                    
            refers to the definition given by Keeton, (Trust, 1971, pg. 13), which is as follows:
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      “The relationship which arises wherever a person called       
                                                                                    
                      the trustee is compelled in Equity to hold property,          
                                                                                    
                      whether real or personal, and whether by legal or             
                      equitable title for the benefit on some persons (of whom      
                                                                                    
                      he may be one and who are termed cestuis que trust) or        
                                                                                    
                      for some object permitted by law, in such a way that the      
                      real benefit of the property accrues not to the trustee but   
                                                                                    
                      to the beneficiaries or other objects of the trust.”          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Learned Counsel for the appellant contended that, considering the provisions contained
                                                                                    
            in sections 4 and 98 of the Trusts Ordinance, the transaction in this appeal cannot be
                                                                                    
            treated as one, which created a trust. It was also submitted that the District Court of
            Mawanella as well as the Provincial High Court had erred in law on this issue and that
                                                                                    
            the decision in Muniyandy Natchie v Kayambo ([1988] II CALR 56) on which reliance
                                                                                    
            was placed by both Courts, was wrongly decided.                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Section 4 of the Trusts Ordinance is contained in Chapter II of the said Ordinance, which
                                                                                    
            deals with the creation of Trusts. Section 4(1), which deals with lawful purpose is as
            follows:                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       6            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      “A trust may be created for any lawful purpose. The           
                      purpose of a trust is lawful, unless it is –                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                           a) forbidden by law, or                                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                           b) is of such a nature that, if permitted, it would      
                                                                                    
                              defeat the provisions of any law, or                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                           c) is fraudulent, or                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                           d) involves or implies injury to the person or           
                              property of another or                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                           e) the Court regards it as immoral or opposed to         
                                                                                    
                              public policy.”                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Section 98 of the Trusts Ordinance refers to the saving rights of bona fide purchasers
                                                                                    
            and reads as follows:                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      “Nothing contained in this Chapter shall impair the rights    
                                                                                    
                      of transferees in good faith for valuable consideration, or   
                                                                                    
                      create an obligation in evasion of any law for the time       
                      being in force.”                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Section 98 of the Trusts Ordinance, it is to be borne in mind, is contained in Chapter IX
            of the Trusts Ordinance, which deals with Constructive Trusts.          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Learned Counsel for the appellant strenuously contended that, the plaintiff-
            respondent’s action, clearly indicates that there is a breach of Revenue Law and
                                                                                    
            therefore the respondent cannot seek relief under the Trusts Ordinance. As stated
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       7            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            earlier, section 4(1) of the Trusts Ordinance is specific with regard to the creation of
            Trusts, which could be for any lawful purpose. The said section has clearly defined the
                                                                                    
            instances, where a trust could be regarded as unlawful. In such circumstances, what is
                                                                                    
            necessary is to examine as to the steps taken by the plaintiff-respondent and whether
            they would come within the purview of section 4(1) of the Trusts Ordinance.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            It is not disputed that the plaintiff-respondent had sent the money for the appellant to
                                                                                    
            purchase the property in her name.                                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The contention of the plaintiff-respondent was that the reason for the said decision was
                                                                                    
            to avoid the payment of tax imposed under the Finance Act. Learned Counsel for the
            appellant contented that both the District Court and the High Court had held that the
                                                                                    
            breach of Revenue Law is not within the contemplation of sections 4(1) and 98 of the
                                                                                    
            Trusts Ordinance and as stated earlier that both Courts had erred as they had relied on
            Muniyandy’s case, which had been wrongly decided.                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            In the light of the above, it is necessary to consider whether the transaction in question
            could be treated as an unlawful transaction.                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Dr. L.J.M. Cooray in his work on the subject of Trust (Trust, L.J.M. Cooray, pg. 91) has
                                                                                    
            discussed the nature of an unlawful trust. According to Dr. Cooray, if sections 4 and 98
            of the Trusts Ordinance had been omitted, the general law of the land would have
                                                                                    
            prevented the operation of trusts for unlawful purposes. Referring to trusts for
                                                                                    
            unlawful purposes, Dr. Cooray refers to Prof. Weeramantry’s Treatise on the Law of
            Contracts (The Law of Contracts, Vol. I). Prof. Weeramantry, referring to the breach of
                                                                                    
            revenue regulations clearly states that the mere breach of revenue regulations would
                                                                                    
            not itself render illegal a contract in respect of which they are imposed (The Law of
            Contract, Vol. I, pg. 340). It could also be argued that what the plaintiff-respondent
                                                                                    
            intended by purchasing the property in the name of the appellant was not to breach the
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       8            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            revenue legislation, as in any event, at the stage of a re-transfer and at the stage of
            registration of the said land, the plaintiff-respondent would have to make the payment
                                                                                    
            of tax in terms of the Finance Act.                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            An act could not be treated as invalid simply due to illegality. In Fernando v
                                                                                    
            Ramanathan ((1913) 16 N.L.R. 337), a Full Bench at that time, had decided that a deed is
                                                                                    
            not invalid on the ground of illegality because it is contrary to what may be termed the
                                                                                    
            policy of an Ordinance. Considering the implied statutory prohibitions, Prof.
            Weeramantry (supra, pg. 337) has referred to the decision in Mohideen v Saibo ((1913)
                                                                                    
            17 N.L.R. 17), Georgiades v Klompje ((1943) T.P.D. 15) and Pollock (13th edition, pg 275)
                                                                                    
            and had stated thus:                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      “Where a statute merely imposes a penalty on the              
                                                                                    
                      performance of certain acts without declaring such acts to    
                      be illegal or void, the question arises whether such acts     
                                                                                    
                      are void. In such cases we must look to the intention of      
                                                                                    
                      the legislature to see whether the imposition of the          
                      penalty implies such a prohibition as to make the resulting   
                                                                                    
                      contract void. The imposition by the legislature of a         
                                                                                    
                      penalty on any specific act or omission is prima facie        
                                                                                    
                      equivalent according to Pollock to an express prohibition.    
                      Such provision is however, only prima facie evidence and      
                                                                                    
                      is not enough by itself to make a contract to do that act     
                                                                                    
                      illegal or void.”                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Considering the submissions made by both learned Counsel for the appellant as well as
                                                                                    
            the plaintiff-respondent it is apparent that no arguments were put forward by the
            appellant that if it was allowed, the transaction which took place between the appellant
                                                                                    
            and the plaintiff-respondent would defeat the provisions of any law. Similarly no
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       9            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            material was put forward to substantiate the fact that the said transaction is not one
            which is forbidden by law, fraudulent, involves or implies injury to the person or
                                                                                    
            property of another and the Court regards it as immoral or opposed to public policy.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Learned Counsel for the appellant contended that in terms of section 4(1) of the Trusts
                                                                                    
            Ordinance there is no possibility of relying on a Trust, when the purpose is illegal.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Section 4(1) of the Trusts Ordinance as stated earlier clearly refers to the fact that a
            trust may be created for any lawful purpose. The unlawful purposes, which would
                                                                                    
            forbid a Trust being created, are specifically referred to in section 4(1). Learned Counsel
                                                                                    
            for the appellant took up the position that the intention to avoid the payment of 100%
            as tax on the land transaction would clearly show the objective of the plaintiff-
                                                                                    
            respondent’s action. However, unlawful intention alone cannot make the contract
                                                                                    
            illegal. Referring to unlawful intentions, Prof. G.L. Peiris (Some Aspects of the Law of
            Unjust Enrichment in South Africa and Ceylon, pp. 72-73) states that,   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      “A significant development in the modern law is that an       
                      unlawful intention, bilaterally entertained, is no longer an  
                                                                                    
                      absolute bar to restitution. This principle was recognized    
                                                                                    
                      for South African law in 1939 in Jajbhay v Cassim where       
                                                                                    
                      Stratford, C.J. declared that “the rule expressed in the      
                      maxim in pari delicto potior est conditio defendentis is not  
                                                                                    
                      one that can or ought to be applied in all cases . . . . It is
                                                                                    
                      subject to exceptions which, in each case, must be found      
                      to exist only by regard to the principle of public policy.”   
                                                                                    
                      Watermeyer, J.A. said: “the principle underlying the          
                                                                                    
                      general rule is that the Courts will discourage illegal       
                      transactions, but the exceptions show that where it is        
                                                                                    
                      necessary to prevent injustice or to promote public policy,   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       10           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      they will not rightly enforce the rule.” This view has been   
                      authoritatively accepted as applicable to the law of          
                                                                                    
                      Ceylon.”                                                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            It is therefore evident that, no material had been adduced before this Court to show
                                                                                    
            that the transaction in question had been for an unlawful purpose in terms of section
                                                                                    
            4(1) of the Trusts Ordinance.                                           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Learned Counsel for the appellant strenuously contended that Muniyandy’s case (supra)
                                                                                    
            was wrongly decided for the reason that the transaction in issue cannot be called a trust
                                                                                    
            in view of sections 4(2) and 98 of the Trusts Ordinance. In Muniyandy’s case (supra) the
            plaintiffs-respondents desired to own property that was sold through the Estate
                                                                                    
            Fragmentation Board. They were both persons whose application for citizenship in Sri
                                                                                    
            Lanka were being finalised by the Registering Authorities of the State. The plaintiffs-
            respondents were therefore non-citizens at the time of the sale. Under the Finance Act,
                                                                                    
            No. 11 of 1963, they were required to pay 100% tax if they purchased the property as
                                                                                    
            non-citizens. In order to overcome this, the plaintiffs-respondents had paid the
            purchase price for the land and had the deed written in the name of the defendant-
                                                                                    
            appellant, who was their sister and a citizen of Sri Lanka.             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Learned Counsel for the defendant-appellant in that matter had contended that section
            98 read with section 4(1) of the Trusts Ordinance would prevent the creation of such a
                                                                                    
            Trust in so far as the transfer of property was an evasion of section 58(1) of the Finance
                                                                                    
            Act. The Court of Appeal, considering the submissions made, had held that the relevant
            provisions of the Finance Act do not impose a prohibition on the transfer of land to the
                                                                                    
            class of persons to whom the plaintiffs-respondents belonged.           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            An examination of the provisions of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963, referred to in
                                                                                    
            Muniyandy’s case (supra), clearly show that appropriate steps could have been taken
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       11           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            to ensure that such person, who had attempted to evade tax, be made to pay the
            relevant dues to the authorities. As correctly pointed out in Muniyandy’s case (supra)
                                                                                    
            section 58(1) read with section 59 of the Finance Act had imposed a tax and empowered
                                                                                    
            the Commissioner of Inland Revenue to recover the tax if in default due to the non-
            payment, from the person/s whom it has become due. Section 58(1) of the Finance Act,
                                                                                    
            No. 11 of 1963, referred to the charge of the tax and stated that,      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                      “Subject to the provisions of sub-section (4), where there    
                      is a transfer of ownership of any property in Ceylon to a     
                                                                                    
                      person who is not a citizen of Ceylon, there shall be         
                                                                                    
                      charged from the transferee of such property a tax of such    
                      amount as is equivalent to the value of that property.”       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Section 59 of the Finance Act, which dealt with the effect of the non-payment of the tax,
            clearly stated that the Commissioner of Inland Revenue, upon notification of such
                                                                                    
            default by the Registrar of Lands or the Company as the case may be, shall take steps for
                                                                                    
            the recovery of the tax deemed to be in default.                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            The Court of Appeal in Muniyandy’s case (supra) had considered the said position and
                                                                                    
            the non-payment of the tax above the ordinary stamp duty where the purchase was
                                                                                    
            made in the appellant’s name. Consideration was also given to several decisions by the
            Court of Appeal. Considering the provisions of the Finance Act and the other relevant
                                                                                    
            material referred to above, it would not be correct to state that the Muniyandy’s case
                                                                                    
            (supra) was wrongly decided by the Court of Appeal. Accordingly, the two questions on
            which this appeal was argued are answered as follows:                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 1. the plaintiff-respondent could in the circumstances of the case, plead a
                    constructive trust;                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       12           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 2. the trust alleged by the plaintiff-respondent is not contrary to the provisions
                    in sections 4(1) and 98 of the Trusts Ordinance.                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            For the reasons aforesaid, the appeal is dismissed and the judgment of the Provincial
                                                                                    
            High Court (Civil Appeal) of the Sabaragamuwa Province holden in Kegalle dated
                                                                                    
            27.01.2009 is affirmed.                                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            I make no order as to costs.                                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          Chief Justice                             
                                                                                    
            K. Sripavan, J.                                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 I agree.                                                           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                          Judge of the Supreme Court                
                                                                                    
            S. I. Imam, J.                                                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                 I agree.                                                           
                                                                                    
                                          Judge of the Supreme Court                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                       13           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    