                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          1       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                   IN THE SUPREME  COURT  OF THE DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST           
                                                                                  
                                  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                        In the matter of reference under Article 125
                                        of the Constitution of the Republic.      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                        Gardihewa Sarath C. Fonseka               
                                                                                  
                                        No. 6, 37th Lane, Queens Road,            
                                                                                  
                                        Colombo 03                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 SC REF No: 1/2010                PETITIONER                      
                 CA (Writ) Application No. 676/2010                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                        Vs.                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                        1. Mr. Dhammika Kithulegoda               
                                                                                  
                                          Secretary General of Parliament of the  
                                                                                  
                                          Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri    
                                          Lanka.                                  
                                                                                  
                                        2. Mr. Dhammika Dassanayake               
                                                                                  
                                          Deputy Secretary General of Parliament  
                                          of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
                                                                                  
                                          Lanka.                                  
                                                                                  
                                        3. Mr. Dayananda Dissanayake              
                                                                                  
                                          Commissioner of  Elections, Elections   
                                          Secretariat, Rajagiriya.                
                                                                                  
                                        4. Mr. J. Sylvester                       
                                                                                  
                                          The Returning Officer – Colombo District,
                                                                                  
                                          District Secretariat, Colombo.          
                                                                                  
                                        5. Major General V.R. de Silva            
                                                                                  
                                          The Commissioner General of Prisons,    
                                          Prison Headquarters, Colombo 8.         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          2       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                        6. Lt. Gen. Jagath Jayasuriya             
                                                                                  
                                          Commander  of the Sri Lanka Army, Army  
                                          Headquarters, Colombo 2                 
                                                                                  
                                        7. Lakshman Nipunarachchi                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                          No.7,  Rajaye  Niwasa,  Bokundara,      
                                          Piliyandala                             
                                                                                  
                                        8. Hon. The Attorney General              
                                                                                  
                                          Attorney General’s Department, Colombo  
                                          12.                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                       RESPONDENTS                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Before:   J.A.N. De Silva, CJ                                           
                    Dr. Shirani A. Bandaranayake, J                               
                                                                                  
                    R.A.N. Gamini Amaratunga, J                                   
                    Saleem Marsoof, J                                             
                    K. Sripavan, J                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Counsel:  Mr. Romesh De Silva PC, Mr. Saliya Peries, for the Petitioner.
                    Mr. Shibly Aziz PC with Mr. C. Warnasuriya for the 7th Respondent.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    Attorney General Mr. Mohan Pieries PC with Deputy Solicitor   
                                                                                  
                    Generals Mr. S. Rajaratnam and Mrs. S.W.F. Jameel, and Senior State
                    Counsel Mr. A.N.R. Pulle for the Respondents.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Entertained Submissions in Open Courts on: 9-12-2010 and 13-12-2010     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Written Submissions tendered on: 23-12-2010                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Decided on:    10-01-2011                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          3       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          J.A.N. De Silva, CJ                                                     
                                                                                  
          The Court of Appeal has referred the following question to the Supreme  
                                                                                  
          Court:                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    “Whether the words ‘any court’ referred to in Article 89(d) of
                                                                                  
               the Constitution refer to the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal and   
               the other Courts of First Instance, to the exclusion of tribunals and
                                                                                  
               Institutions or whether the words ‘any court’ include a Court      
                                                                                  
               Martial”.                                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Court of Appeal referred to Articles 24(5), 105 and 13(4), of the   
                                                                                  
          Constitution, and to Section 2 of the Judicature Act No 2 of 1978, as   
          amended.                                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The argument for the Petitioner is that:                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
           1    ‘any court’ referred to in Article 89(d) does not include Courts  
                                                                                  
                Martial, as per Article 105 of the Constitution;                  
           2    Judicial power of the People is exercised through courts, tribunals
                                                                                  
                and institutions created and established, or recognised, by the   
                                                                                  
                Constitution vide Article 4 (c) of the Constitution and as such, not
                                                                                  
                through Courts Martial that are convened by, consisting of, and   
                confirmed by, the Executive;                                      
                                                                                  
           3    Article 24 of the Constitution which deals with the language of the
                                                                                  
                Courts, has in an inclusive application, included tribunals and   
                other institutions within its limited purview, and, as such tribunals
                                                                                  
                and other institutions are not “courts” with reference to the rest
                                                                                  
                of the Constitution;                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          4       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
           4    Courts Martial are ad hoc appointments and lack the permanency    
                                                                                  
                and other features of regular Courts;                             
           5    Courts Martial are not bound by the Evidence Ordinance nor the    
                                                                                  
                Code of Criminal Procedure, and members of a Court Martial are    
                                                                                  
                not members of the Judiciary but are part of the Executive;       
                                                                                  
           6    Courts Martial are limited to military matters;                   
           7    Courts Martial do not observe principles of fair trial;           
                                                                                  
           8    Article 13(4) does not confer to a Court Martial the ‘dignity of a
                                                                                  
                competent Court’. Courts Martial survive solely due to Article    
                                                                                  
                16(1) which   permitted  their continuity  under  the  new        
                Constitution.                                                     
                                                                                  
           9    A Court Martial does not comprise  judicial officers as in the    
                                                                                  
                interpretation clause of the Constitution with reference to Article
                170; and                                                          
                                                                                  
           10   Equating a military tribunal to a High Court would harm the Courts
                                                                                  
                and the judicial power of the people;                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Attorney General responds as follows:                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
            1. The disqualification in Article 89(d) should be viewed from the    
              context of its inclusion and not in a vacuum;                       
                                                                                  
            2. The vacancy of the Parliamentary seat occurs by operation of law in
                                                                                  
              the event of the occurrence of a disqualification set out in Article
                                                                                  
              89(d);                                                              
            3. On a moral basis, a person serving a term of imprisonment  is      
                                                                                  
              disqualified from either being elected or continuing as a member of 
                                                                                  
              Parliament;                                                         
            4. The convictions and sentence of Courts Martial are akin to those   
                                                                                  
              imposed  by civil Courts, having regard to fundamental rules of     
                                                                                  
              procedure at the hearing;                                           
                                                                                  
            5. A sentence of death or imprisonment can be imposed only by a       
              competent  court  and the  Court Martial being empowered   to       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          5       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              impose such sentences in terms of Section 133 of the Army Act is    
                                                                                  
              therefore a competent  Court  in terms of Article 13(4) of the      
              Constitution;                                                       
                                                                                  
            6. Article 16 of the Constitution has kept the Court Martial’s power of
                                                                                  
              imposing death sentences and sentences of imprisonment alive;       
                                                                                  
            7. A Court Martial administers justice and is also a Court in terms of
              Article 16 and  as  such comes   under Article 4 (c)   of the       
                                                                                  
              Constitution;                                                       
                                                                                  
            8. Section 2(1) of the Evidence Ordinance presumes a Court Martial to 
                                                                                  
              be  a Court and the rules of evidence applicable in a civil Court also
              apply to Courts Martial (vide Section 81 of the Army Act);          
                                                                                  
            9. The confirming authority’s role of giving “validity” to the conviction
                                                                                  
              and sentence passed by the Court Martial, is a protective measure   
              for the benefit of the accused, and cannot be seen as a factor of   
                                                                                  
              bias or partiality;                                                 
                                                                                  
            10. The words “any Court” in Article 89(d) must be considered from    
                                                                                  
              the point of view of the intention of the Legislature; and          
            11. If the contention of the Petitioner be valid then it would lead to an
                                                                                  
              absurd situation where persons convicted of criminal offences and   
                                                                                  
              sentenced to imprisonment by a Court Martial may continue to sit    
                                                                                  
              and vote in Parliament, but not so a civilian similarly convicted and
              sentenced by a civil Court.                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Having regard to the parameters  of the question referred and the       
                                                                                  
          plurality of arguments presented it is best that the question and all the
                                                                                  
          arguments be considered as a whole and not piecemeal. The argument      
          of the Petitioner in its broadest sense would be that the disqualification
                                                                                  
          process that would be  set in motion by  a relevant conviction and      
                                                                                  
          sentence handed down  by a competent court as contemplated in Article   
                                                                                  
          89(d) of the Constitution would not be so set in motion by a conviction 
          and sentence by a Court Martial, the same not being a court in terms of 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          6       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          the Constitution. So also that the Court Martial is convened by, and    
                                                                                  
          comprises, the Executive.                                               
                                                                                  
          The Petitioner relies on Articles 105, 4(c), 24 and 170 of the Constitution
                                                                                  
          and on the provisions of the Evidence Ordinance which have excluded     
                                                                                  
          its application to Courts Martial, and ad hoc nature and the differences
          in procedure between  regular courts and Courts Martial including an    
                                                                                  
          inherent denial of a fair trial in Courts Martial.                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
           The Attorney General’s response is that Article 89(d) should not be    
           taken out of context and in isolation and that it seeks to prevent     
                                                                                  
           persons convicted and  serving sentences from occupying  seats in      
                                                                                  
           Parliament. He also forwards an observation of an anomalous situation  
                                                                                  
           where a person sentenced to death by a Court Martial would continue    
           to occupy his seat in Parliament whereas a person sentenced to death   
                                                                                  
           by a court of civil jurisdiction would be disqualified by reason of the
                                                                                  
           conviction and sentence. The Attorney General relies on Article 13(4) to
           substantiate his argument in that in terms of Article 13(4) only a     
                                                                                  
           competent Court can impose a sentence of death or imprisonment and     
                                                                                  
           the Court Martial being empowered to impose such sentences it is a     
                                                                                  
           competent court in terms of that Article.                              
                                                                                  
           The Attorney General has countered the argument of the Petitioner      
                                                                                  
           that the Court Martial has been kept alive by Article 16 in contravention
                                                                                  
           of Article 13(4) with the statement that Article 16 and 105(2) have kept
           all laws existing at the time of the Constitution alive and as such the
                                                                                  
           Court Martial under the Army Act continues validly and comfortably     
                                                                                  
           with the Constitution.                                                 
                                                                                  
           The Attorney General also points out that in terms of Article 16 the   
                                                                                  
           provisions of Article 4(c) of the Constitution are satisfied in that a Court
                                                                                  
           Martial has been recognised as a court administering justice.          
                                                                                  
           He further submits that the role of the Chief Executive in certifying the
                                                                                  
           verdict and sentence is merely to give effect to the findings of the Court
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          7       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
           Martial and does  not interfere with the judicial character of the     
                                                                                  
           hearing.                                                               
                                                                                  
           Before examining the relevant Constitutional provisions I would prefer 
                                                                                  
           to examine the relevant decisions of the Privy Council and the Supreme 
                                                                                  
           Court that touch upon the subject matter as tendered by the respective 
           parties to this action.                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Now, I will consider the relevant decisions that have a bearing on the  
                                                                                  
          issue, as cited by parties, namely, Bribery Commissioner v Ranasinghe,  
                      1                                      2                    
          Privy Council , Walker Sons & Co. Ltd. and Others v Fry , Liyanage and  
                             3                           4                        
          Others v The Queen  , Panagoda v Budinis Singho , and Gunaseela v       
                                                            5                     
          Udugama  (Major General and Commander  of the Army) .                   
          In Bribery Commissioner v Ranasinghe (see fn 3), Privy Council, the     
                                                                                  
          Respondent was convicted and sentenced by the Bribery Tribunal which    
                                                                                  
          was created by the Bribery Amendment Act 1958. The members of each      
                                                                                  
          Tribunal were drawn  from  a panel of members   appointed  by the       
          Governor General on the advice of the Minister of Justice. In appeal the
                                                                                  
          Supreme  Court declared the conviction void in that the appointment of  
                                                                                  
          members   to the  Panel from  which the  Tribunal was drawn   was       
          unconstitutional as per the Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council 1946 
                                                                                  
          and  1947  whose  general  conception was   similar to the British      
                                                                                  
          parliamentary democracy.                                                
                                                                                  
          For clarity, I will reproduce below, Sections 53(1) and 55(1), of the   
                                                                                  
          Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council 1946:                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    53(1)     There shall be  a Judicial Service Commission       
                    which shall consist of the Chief Justice, who shall be the    
                                                                                  
                    Chairman, a Judge of the Supreme   Court, and one other       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          1(1964) 66 NLR 73                                                       
          2 (1965) 68 NLR 73,                                                     
          3 (1965) 68 NLR 265                                                     
          4 (1966) July 22nd 68 NLR 490                                           
          5 (1966) July 22nd 69 NLR 193                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          8       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    person who  shall be, or shall have been, a Judge of the      
                                                                                  
                    Supreme  Court.  The members   of the Commission, other       
                    than the Chairman,  shall be appointed by the  Governor       
                                                                                  
                    General.                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    55(1)     The  appointment, transfer and  dismissal and       
                    disciplinary control of judicial officers is hereby vested in the
                                                                                  
                    Judicial Service Commission.                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    3(1) of the Order in Council sets out the interpretation of   
                    “judicial office” as any paid judicial office and Section 55(5)
                                                                                  
                    defines “judicial officer” as the holder of any judicial office
                                                                                  
                    but does not include the Supreme Court or Commissioners of    
                                                                                  
                    Assize.                                                       
                                                                                  
          The  issues before the Privy Council were  whether  the  statutory      
                                                                                  
          provisions for the appointment of the members  of the Panel of the      
                                                                                  
          Bribery Tribunal otherwise than by the Judicial Service Commission was  
          in conflict with Section 55 of the Constitution. The Privy Council held 
                                                                                  
          that it was invalid for the reasons that the Tribunal performed judicial
                                                                                  
          functions and as such Section 41 which provided for the appointment of  
          the panel was in conflict with Section 55 of the Ceylon (Constitution)  
                                                                                  
          Order in Council. It held further that the relevant provisions amounted 
                                                                                  
          to an amendment  to the Constitution and there was no certificate from  
                                                                                  
          the Speaker that the Act had passed with a two third majority which was 
          necessary in terms of Section 29(4) of the Order in Council. The Privy  
                                                                                  
          Council accordingly declared that the persons composing the Bribery     
                                                                                  
          Tribunal which tried the respondent were not lawfully appointed and     
                                                                                  
          the appeal (by the Bribery Commissioner) was dismissed. This judgment   
          was delivered in 1964.                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Privy Council also observed that the Constitution did not deal      
          specifically with the judicial system and as such “…the power and       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                          9       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          jurisdiction of the Courts are therefore not expressly protected by the 
                      6                                                           
          Constitution.                                                           
                                                                                  
                                 7                                                
          Dr Lakshman  Marasinghe , in his work The Evolution of Constitutional   
          Governance   in Sri  Lanka, summarizes   Bribery  Commissioner  v       
                                                                                  
          Ranasinghe in the following terms:                                      
                                                                                  
               “The basic issue before the Privy Council was whether the Bribery  
                                                                                  
               Amendment   Act- which was  passed by a simple majority- was       
                                                                                  
               constitutional and was therefore valid, in the light of Articles 53
                                        8                                         
               and 55 of the Constitution. …..To that question the Privy Council  
               gave a negative answer. They found the provisions of the Act to be 
                                                                                  
                                                                9                 
               in conflict with Articles 53 and 55 of the Constitution.”          
                                                                     10           
          Then came  the decision in Walker Sons & Co and Others vs. Fry . This   
          was a consolidated appeal heard by a Full Bench headed by Sansoni C.J.  
                                                                                  
          Six cases were heard together by a reference under Section 51 of the    
                                                                                  
          Courts Ordinance. The question was whether the tribunals should have    
          been  appointed by the Judicial Service Commission since they had       
                                                                                  
          purported to exercise judicial power. In two the Tribunals concerned    
                                                                                  
          were Labour Tribunals, in one the Tribunal was an arbitrator to whom a  
          dispute was referred by the Minister of Labour under Section 4 (1) of   
                                                                                  
          the Act, in two more the Tribunal was an Industrial Court of one person 
                                                                                  
          to whom  the dispute was referred by the Minister under Section 4 (2) of
                                                                                  
          the Act, and the last Tribunal was an arbitrator to whom the dispute was
          referred by the Commissioner of Labour under Section 3 (1) of the Act.  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Sansoni C.J. observed that the Industrial Disputes Act No 43 of 1950,   
                                                                                  
          Part III provided for  collective agreements, and  settlements by       
          conciliation and arbitration and Part IV for the constitution Industrial
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          6 At pg 74                                                              
          7 Emeritus Professor of Law, University of Windsor, Canada              
          8 At pg 120                                                             
          9 At pg 121                                                             
          10 (1965) 68 NLR 73                                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         10       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Courts, from a panel appointed by the Governor General, to whom such    
                                                                                  
          disputes might be referred for settlement. It also provided for the     
                                                        11                        
          reference of disputes for settlement by arbitration.                    
                                                                                  
          Tracing its history, his Lordship noted that Act No 62 of 1957 amended  
                                                                                  
          the original Act and introduced Labour Tribunals in Part IV A, and      
          particularly section 31B, which conferred “power which it has been      
                                                                                  
          argued, amounts to judicial power. By the same Act, labour Tribunals    
                                                                                  
          were included among  those to whom   disputes could be referred for     
                                                                                  
          arbitration but that amendment   merely added  one  more  kind of       
                                              12                                  
          arbitrator to those already in existence.”                              
                                                                                  
          In a majority decision Court held                                       
                                                                                  
               “that a Labour Tribunal exercises judicial power when it acts under
                                                                                  
               Part IV A, particularly Section 31B, of the Industrial Disputes Act (as
                                                                                  
               emended  by Act No 62 of 1957). Therefore, as it is also a holder of
                                                                                  
               a public office, it is a ‘judicial officer’ within the meaning of Section
               55 of the Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council, 1946, and has no 
                                                                                  
               jurisdiction to exercise judicial power unless it has been appointed
                                                                                  
               by the Judicial Service Commission.”                               
                                                                                  
               With reference to disputes referred by the Commissioner or the     
                                                                                  
               Minister for settlement by conciliation or by arbitration or by an 
                                                                                  
               Industrial Court in Part II, the findings of Sansoni C.J. were that the
               tribunals need  not  be  appointed  by  the  Judicial Service      
                                                                                  
               Commission since the offices were arbitral in nature, but that they
                                                                                  
               had by an excess of jurisdiction, exercised judicial power. These  
                                                                                  
               were  referred to a  bench  of two  judges for determination       
               regarding the issuance of writs.                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          It was also held that,                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          11 Pg 76                                                                
          12 Walker Sons & Co., Ltd v Fry, (1965) 68 NLR 73 at 76                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         11       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               “The jurisdiction of Labour Tribunals set out in Part IV A of the  
                                                                                  
               Industrial Disputes Act is not the only power given to them. The   
               Act, in Sections 3(1)*d) and 4(1), contemplates a Labour Tribunal  
                                                                                  
               acting as an arbitrator. A Labour Tribunal need not be appointed   
                                                                                  
               by the Judicial Service Commission if it performs only arbitral    
                         13                                                       
               functions.”                                                        
                                                                                  
          Four of the six cases in Fry were referred to a Bench of two judges for 
                                                                                  
          determination regarding the issue of writs. In the hearing into these four
                                                                                  
          cases T.S. Fernando J., and Sri Skanda Raja J., being unable to agree on
          the nature of the order to be made, referred the issue to the Chief     
                                                                                  
          Justice who in turn directed that the applications be heard before a    
                                                                                  
          Bench of five judges, whose Order it is that is under consideration now.
                                                                                  
          These cases were  reported under  Moosajees  Ltd., v Fernando and       
                14                                                                
          others   which will be considered next. It must be remembered here      
          that Moosajees came  after the Privy Council decision in Liyanage and   
                           15                                                     
          others v The Queen .                                                    
                                                                                  
          As mentioned  earlier, this case emerged due to the reference of four   
                                                                                  
                                       16                                         
          matters that came  up  in Fry   before a Bench  of two  judges to       
          determine the matter of the issue of writs. Between the cases of Fry    
             th                                                th                 
          (30  November  1965) and Moosajees  Ltd v Fernando 16  May  1966)       
          came the judgment above discussed- Liyanage and Others v The Queen      
                                                                                  
            nd                                                                    
          (2  December  1965) which was decided by the Privy Council. Liyanage    
          will be considered after this- but the pivot on which Moosajees was     
          decided by the Bench of five judges was the decision in Liyanage.       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In Moosajee the Court held, following the decision of the Privy Council in
                                         17                                       
          Liyanage and others v The Queen , that if the respective tribunals had  
          exercised judicial power, as found by the previous Collective Bench, and
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          13 At pg 73                                                             
          14 (1966) 68 NLR 414                                                    
          15 (1962) 64 NLR 313                                                    
          16 above                                                                
          17 (1965) 68 NLR 265                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         12       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          also found by itself, then the appointments must be  made  by the       
                                                                                  
          Judicial Service Commission, and as such the awards were quashed. The   
                                               18                                 
          main judgment is that of T.S. Fernando J. Now I will go into Liyanage v 
          The Queen on which Moosajees was based.                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Trial at Bar of the case of Queen v Liyanage and others has seen a  
                                                                 19               
          chequered career- in the first instance, in Queen v Liyanage the Trial- 
          at-Bar was convened  by the Minister of Justice from Judges of the      
                                                                                  
          Supreme  Court. The issue taken up as a preliminary objection by the    
                                                                                  
          accused  was the  “unconstitutionality of certain provisions of the     
                                            20                                    
          Criminal Law (Special Provisions) Act ” designed “to obtain from this   
          Court a declaration that Sections 8 and 9 of that Act which relate to the
                                                                                  
          power  of the Minister of Justice to issue respectively a direction that
                                                                                  
          persons accused of certain offences be tried before the Supreme Court   
          at Bar by three Judges without a jury and to nominate those three       
                                                                                  
          Judges are ultra vires the powers of the Legislature as granted by the  
                                                   21                             
          Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council, 1946.”                          
                                                                                  
          Section 8 of the Act provided that “any direction issued by the Minister
                                                                                  
          of Justice under Section 440A of the Criminal procedure Code shall be   
                                                                                  
          final and conclusive, and shall not be called in question in any Court, 
          whether by way  of Writ or otherwise” This provision was held to be     
                                                                                  
                                 22                                               
          intra vires the Legislature.                                            
                                                                                  
          Section 9 provided that,                                                
                                                                                  
               “Where  the Minister of Justice issues a direction under Section   
                                                                                  
          440A of the Criminal Procedure Code that the trial of any offence shall 
                                                                                  
          be held before the Supreme Court at Bar by three Judges without a jury, 
          the three Judges shall be nominated by the Minister of Justice…..”      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          18Moosajees, at page 420                                                
          19 (1962) 64 NLR 313                                                    
          20 Act No 1 of 1962                                                     
          21 At pg 343                                                            
          22 At pg 347                                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         13       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Supreme  Court at Bar held, “that Section 9 of the Criminal Law     
                                                                                  
          (Special Provisions) Act is ultra vires the Constitution because (a) the
          power of nomination conferred on the Minister is an interference with   
                                                                                  
          the exercise by the Judges of the Supreme Court of the strict judicial  
                                                                                  
          power  of the State vested in them by virtue of their appointment in    
                                                                                  
          terms of Section 52 of the Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council, 1946 
          or is in derogation thereof, and (b) the power of nomination is one     
                                                                                  
          which has hitherto been invariably exercised by the Judicature as being 
                                                                                  
          part of the exercise of the judicial power of the State, and cannot be  
                                                                                  
          reposed in anyone outside the Judicature.”                              
                                                                                  
          The decision in The Queen v Liyanage, above, was not challenged by an   
                                                                                  
          appeal to the Privy Council. Instead the Criminal Law Act No 31 of 1962 
                                                                                  
          was passed substituting the Chief Justice for Minister of Justice as being
          empowered  to nominate the Bench of the Supreme Court at Bar. Most      
                                                                                  
          of the other  provisions of the original Act were preserved which       
                                                                                  
          included a restricted admissibility of confessions made to police officers,
          statements  made  in the  course of  investigation and such other       
                                                                                  
          provisions and in effect struck down many protections that the general  
                                                                                  
          law offered to  the accused.  The  appellants were  convicted and       
                                                                                  
          sentenced by the Supreme Court at Bar.                                  
                                                                                  
          The appeal from this to the Privy Council gave rise to an observation by
                                                                                  
          Lord Pearce, who also decided Bribery Commissioner v Ranasinghe, that   
                                                                                  
          after independence the Courts continued without change  under the       
          Charter of Justice, 1833 even up to the time of Liyanage v The Queen. As
                                                                                  
          such, no specific reference was made to the judicial power of the Courts
                                                                                  
          when  the change of sovereignty occurred. But Lord Pearce referred to   
          his own  judgment in Bribery Commissioner  and reiterated that the      
                                                                                  
          framers of the Constitution had given thought to and made provision for 
                                                                                  
          the independence   of the judiciary with special reference to the       
                                                                                  
          establishment of the Judicial Service Commission which managed the      
          appointment of Judges and which was  also composed of members  of       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         14       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          the Judiciary or past members. These observations culminated in the     
                                                                                  
          following formulation by Lord Pearce:                                   
                                                                                  
               “These provisions manifest an intention to secure in the judiciary a
                                                                                  
               freedom from political, legislative and executive control. They are
                                                                                  
               wholly appropriate in a Constitution which intends that judicial   
               power  shall be vested only in the judicature. They would be       
                                                                                  
               inappropriate in a Constitution by which it was intended that      
                                                                                  
               judicial power should be shared by the executive or the legislature.
                                                                                  
               The Constitution’s silence as to the vesting of judicial power is  
               consistent with its remaining, where it had lain for more than a   
                                                                                  
               century, in the hands of the judicature. It is not consistent with 
                                                                                  
               any intention that henceforth it should pass to, or be shared by,  
                                            23                                    
               the executive or the legislature.”                                 
                                                                                  
          The impugned  Acts were held to be ultra vires and invalid in so far as 
                                                                                  
          they constituted a grave and deliberate interference with the judicial  
          power of the judicature.                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bearing all these matters in mind, let us now see what happened in      
                                   24                                             
          Panagoda  v Budinis Singho which added a new  element to the issue:     
          The question in this case was whether the offices of Commissioner of    
                                                                                  
          Workmen’s  Compensation,  Deputy  and  Assistant, could lawfully be     
                                                                                  
          appointed only by the Judicial Service Commission. H.N.G. Fernando,     
                                                                                  
          S.P.J., observed that the Workmen’s  Compensation  Ordinance  was       
          enacted in 1934, prior to the Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council,   
                                                                                  
          1946. Commenting  on Moosajee, his Lordship noted that the decision     
                                                                                  
          did not  deal with whether  the  Industrial Court or an arbitrator      
                                                                                  
          comprised a  “judicial office” as contemplated in Section 55 of the     
          Constitution and that Section 55 concerned itself only with judicial    
                                                                                  
          offices. So  also, his Lordship observed  that Moosajee  had  not       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          23 \Liyanage and Others v The Queen ,(1965) 68 NLR 265 at 282           
          24 ((1966)68 NLR 490                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         15       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          considered the position of the effect of Section 55 of the Order in     
                                                                                  
          Council on legislation enacted prior to Section 55.                     
                                                                                  
               “On the other hand the reference to the Privy Council judgment,    
                                                                                  
          as also in an earlier judgment (Bribery Commissioner v Ranasinghe) to   
                                                                                  
          the danger that an Act of Parliament would result in an erosion of      
          judicial power if it was lawful for such Acts to confer judicial power on
                                                                                  
          any authority not forming part of the Judicature duly constituted under 
                                                                                  
          the Constitution, is an indication that their Lordships were concerned  
                                                                                  
          primarily with the validity of legislation enacted subsequently to the  
                           25                                                     
          Constitution itself.”                                                   
                                                                                  
          The vein of the judgment is that if the Constitution intended to strike 
                                                                      26          
          down  previous legislation it would have done so in express terms. His  
          Lordship held that the impugned offices need not be appointed by the    
                                                                                  
          Judicial Service Commission even though they may  exercise judicial     
                                                                                  
          functions.                                                              
                                                                                  
          The reasoning behind this decision is reflected in the case of Gunaseela
                                                                                  
          v Udugama  (Major General and Commanded   of the Army), cited by the    
                                                                                  
          Attorney General, where the  main argument  of the Petitioner was,      
          quote:                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               “..there was  an  exercise of judicial power by  the officers      
                                                                                  
               constituting the Court Martial, who were person not appointed      
               thereto by the Judicial Service Commission, and that such exercise 
                                                                                  
               conflicts with the principle of Separation of Powers,  which       
                                                                                  
               principle has been declared in the recent judgment of the Privy    
                                                27                                
               Council in Liyanage  v the Queen    to  be embodied   in our       
                           28                                                     
               Constitution.                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          25 At pg 493-494                                                        
          26 See pg 495                                                           
          27 (1965) 68 NLR 265                                                    
          28 At pg 194 above                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         16       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               “the Crown has not contended, on the one hand, that the Court      
                                                                                  
               Martial has not exercised judicial power; nor on the other hand    
               has it been seriously argued on behalf of the Petitioners that     
                                                                                  
               membership  of a Court Martial is “paid judicial office” within the
                                                                                  
               meaning of Section 55 of the Constitution. A Court Martial is not  
                                                                                  
               a paid office; it is a body consisting of Service Officers convened ad
               hoc for the trial of particular cases, and the duty to serve as a  
                                                                                  
               member  of such a Court is only one of the several kinds of duties 
                                                                                  
               which a Service Officer can under the relevant Statutes be called  
                                                                                  
               upon  to perform…A  Court martial bears no resemblance  to a       
                                                                        29        
               Labour Tribunal established under the Industrial Disputes Act.”.   
                                                                                  
          H.N.G. Fernando, S.P.J., goes on to observe that the Army Act was       
                                                                                  
          enacted  after the  then  Constitution came  into  operation. The       
          Constitution “has had not the effect of invalidating any pre existing   
                                                                                  
          Statute in virtue of which judicial power was exercisable by a person not
                                                                                  
          holding a paid judicial office, These reasons apply equally to a case   
          where  an Act of Parliament merely re-enacts pre-existing law.” Here    
                                                                                  
          Fernando, S.P.J., has taken his reasoning in Panagoda a step further and
                                                                                  
          applied it to re-enaction of pre-existing legislation.                  
                                                                                  
               “The Army Act, 1881, of the United Kingdom was, like many other    
                                                                                  
               British enactments, part of the law of Ceylon long before the      
                                                                                  
                                       30                                         
               Independence of Ceylon.”   “For a long period therefore the law    
               of Ceylon provided  for the trial by Courts Martial of certain     
               offences committed by ‘persons subject to military law’……These     
                                                                                  
               Courts were convened under the Army Act, 1881, which, in Section   
                                                                                  
               55 provided  for the confirmation by a  Colonial Governor of       
               sentences imposed by such Courts, and in Section 122 provided      
                                                                                  
               for the issue of Warrants by a Colonial Governor for convening     
                                                                                  
               Courts Martial. Indeed the law of Ceylon continued to be the same  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          29 At pg 194                                                            
          30 At pg 194                                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         17       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               even  after Independence, until the Army  Act of  the United       
                                                                                  
               Kingdom ceased to be in force with the enactment of our Army Act   
               (Cap 357).  The  constitution, powers and functions of Courts      
                                                                                  
               Martial under the present law are not substantially different from 
                                                                                  
               those of the Courts Martial constituted in Ceylon under British    
                    31                                                            
               rule.”                                                             
                                                                                  
          Fernando S.P.J., was of the view that the Courts Martial of Ceylon could
                                                                                  
          exist independently of the judicature as in American and Australian     
                                                                                  
          systems. But the issue in the present case is whether the Courts Martial
          can exist within the present Constitution. In the cases studied, the issues
                                                                                  
          revolved around the Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council, 1946 and    
                                                                                  
          the establishment of the Judicial Service Commission therein. But, as   
                                                                                  
          pointed out in Panagoda  and developed in Udugama   one must  also      
          bear  in mind  the effect of succeeding  Constitutions on existing      
                                                                                  
          legislation. In summary, Bribery Commissioner v Ranasinghe, Fry, and    
                                                                                  
          Moosajee  all revolved around  the Judicial Service Commission as       
          established by the Order in Council, 1946 and the boundaries of judicial
                                                                                  
          power  in terms of office. On the other hand Budenis and Udugama        
                                                                                  
          went  a step further and introduced a new  element:  the effect of      
                                                                                  
          succeeding Constitutions on existing legislation or the consequences of 
          re enactment of existing legislation after a new Constitution. When     
                                                                                  
          considering the history of political affairs of this nation one must be 
                                                                                  
          mindful that it has seen successive Constitutions as well as numerous   
                                                                                  
          Constitutional amendments.                                              
                                                                                  
          In the Republican Constitution of 1972 Article 12 provided for the      
                                                                                  
          continuance of existing written and unwritten law unless specifically   
          excluded by the Constitution. The only laws that were declared to cease 
                                                                                  
          were the Ceylon  (Constitution and Independence) Orders in Council,     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          31 At pg 195                                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         18       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          1946 and 1947, the Royal Titles Act, and certain provisions of the Royal
                                       32                                         
          Executive Powers and Seals Act.                                         
                                                                                  
          In the present Constitution Articles 16, 105(2) and 168 (1) kept all    
                                                                                  
          existing laws in force as well as all courts tribunals and institution  
                                                                                  
          created for the administration of justice except the Supreme Court. It  
          may  be relevant to quote  the observations made  by Justice Mark       
                                                                                  
          Fernando in the reference of Ratnasiri Perera v Dissanayake, Assistant  
                                                                                  
                                                            33                    
          Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Others as follows:         
               “After the Privy Council decision in Liyanage v The Queen, he      
                                                                                  
               modified this view (see Moosajees v Fernando) in relation to post- 
                                                                                  
               Constitution legislation – holding that there could be no erosion of
                                                                                  
               judicial power. But he maintained this view in regard to pre-      
               Constitution legislation, holding in Panagoda v Budinis Singho, that
                                                                                  
               where    “the holder  of some   office established mainly for      
                                                                                  
               administrative purposes was entrusted also with judicial power     
               necessary for effectively securing the purpose of the establishment
                                                                                  
               of the office”, such officer could validly exercise judicial power 
                                                                                  
               despite want of appointment  by  the J.S.C. Thus the office of     
                                                                                  
               Commissioner for Workmen’s  Compensation, established prior to     
               the Constitution, was an administrative tribunal, a small part of its
                                                                                  
               functions being judicial, and was not a judicial office. Dealing with
                                                                                  
               a similar question in regard to powers  exercised by officers      
                                                                      34          
               administering the income tax laws in Xavier v Wijeyekoon , he      
               held that the Commissioner  of Inland Revenue, in imposing a       
                                                                                  
               penalty for making an incorrect return, does not exercise judicial 
                                                                                  
               power; such a penalty is a civil, rather than a criminal sanction, and
               is intended to protect the revenue against loss and expense arising
                                                                                  
               from the taxpayer’s fraud. In approving that decision, the Privy   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          32 The Constitution of Sri Lanka, 1972, Article 12                      
          33 (1992) 1 SLR 301                                                     
          34 (1966) 69 NLR 197                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         19       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                   35                             
               Council in Ranaweera v Wickramasinghe , held that although such    
               public officers have to act judicially, they are not holders of judicial
               office; “where the resolution of disputes by some Executive Officer
                                                                                  
               can properly be regarded as being part of the execution of some    
                                                                                  
               wider administrative function entrusted to him, then he should be  
                                                                                  
               regarded as still acting in an administrative capacity, and not as 
               performing  some   different and  judicial function”. In this      
                                                                                  
               background, it may well be that Article 170 does not permit an     
                                                                                  
               erosion of existing jurisdictions; nor the mala fide entrustment of
                                                                                  
               judicial power to pubic officers, in order to achieve indirectly a 
               result which cannot be achieved directly; and only allows the      
                                                                                  
               conferment of some judicial power or function which can properly   
                                                                                  
               be regarded  as being ancillary to some  wider administrative      
               function entrusted to an executive officer.”                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Now, I will examine the legal provisions that touch upon this issue:    
                                                                                  
          At the outset I observe  that Article 16, 105(2) and 168 (1) have       
                                                                                  
          preserved the validity of all existing laws at the time of the enactment of
                                                                                  
          the Constitution and the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in terms of  
                                                                                  
          Article 125 is limited to the interpretation of the Constitution. The   
          Supreme  Court  has no  power  to strike down  existing legislation.    
                                                                                  
          Accordingly, Courts Martial in terms of the Army Act are valid and      
                                                                                  
          operative and at no stage of these hearings did the Petitioner attempt  
                                                                                  
          to challenge the validity of Courts Martial in concept. Indeed it was the
          contention of the Counsel for the Petitioners that the concept of Court 
                                                                                  
          Martial is valid and that they would not be challenging its conceptual  
                                                                                  
          reality. So, it is clear that on both sides there is consensus that the 
          concept of the Court  Martial is valid and operative in the present     
                                                                                  
          context. I am also in agreement with this resolution and hold that the  
                                                                                  
          concept of the Court Martial is valid under this Constitution.          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          35 (1961) 72 NLR 553                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         20       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          As  pointed  out  by  the  Attorney General,  interpretation of a       
                                                                                  
          constitutional provision cannot  be  made   in  a  vacuum-   such       
          interpretation should coincide and be comfortable with the rest of the  
                                                                                  
          Constitution. For this purpose it is necessary to examine the intention of
                                                                                  
          the Legislature when it comes to interpretation.                        
                                                                                  
          The Petitioner argues that the Court Martial is not a ‘court’ within the
                                                                                  
          meaning of the Constitution for the reason that it is convened by and   
                                                                                  
          comprises the Executive, requires certification by the convener for     
                                                                                  
          validity, does not follow set procedures as a civil court, is not manned by
          a judicial officer as per Article 170, is not subject to the Evidence   
                                                                                  
          Ordinance, does not come within the provisions of Article 105(1), 4 (c),
                                                                                  
          lacks permanency of regular courts, is limited to military matters, consist
                                                                                  
          of ad hoc appointments, does not adhere to the principles of fair trial,
          and is in conflict with Article 13(4) of the Constitution by virtue of Article
                                                                                  
          16.                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Shortly stated, it is the contention of the Petitioner that the Court   
                                                                                  
          Martial lacks the features of the court of civil judicature and is not  
                                                                                  
          covered by Article 105 of the Constitution as a court and contravenes   
                                                                                  
          Article 4(c).                                                           
                                                                                  
          Let us now consider whether these submissions withstand scrutiny on a   
                                                                                  
          broader wavelength i.e. the concept of Courts Martial and its bearing on
                                                                                  
          the issue, its power to impose  death sentences and  sentences of       
          imprisonment, and  the object of the disqualification in Article 89(d)  
                                                                                  
          which is in question.                                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          As I have held earlier, the concept of Court Martial is a valid and     
          operative part of the law and the Supreme Court cannot strike down      
                                                                                  
          existing legislation. It is undisputed that the Court Martial is empowered
                                                                                  
          to impose sentences of death and/or imprisonment. Then it follows that  
          a sentence of death or imprisonment handed down by a Court Martial is   
                                                                                  
          valid until and unless overturned by a Court of competent jurisdiction. 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         21       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Now,  the Petitioner’s contention is that he cannot be unseated by a    
                                                                                  
          conviction and sentence of a Court Martial: or, in positive terms, he is
          entitled to sit and vote in Parliament in spite of the fact that he is under
                                                                                  
          a sentence of imprisonment by a Court Martial.                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Then, as observed by the Attorney General, is it then, the contention of
          the Petitioner that any person under sentence of death or imprisonment  
                                                                                  
          by a Court Martial, which sentence is valid and operative, still entitled to
                                                                                  
          hold his seat in Parliament and be part of the Legislature of this nation?
                                                                                  
          If that be the case, then  the argument,  if pursued to its logical     
                                                                                  
          conclusion, amounts to a statement that the Legislature may comprise    
                                                                                  
          of persons actively serving prison sentences or/and languishing in death
                                                                                  
          row awaiting execution at the instance of the Executive of the State.   
                                                                                  
          Let us now consider the submissions of the Attorney General and see     
                                                                                  
          whether this logical absurdity can be avoided. He submits that Article 16
                                                                                  
          and 105(2) keep the Army Act- and, as such, the Court Martial, is alive 
          and operative. He further contends that in terms of Section 133 of the  
                                                                                  
          Army Act the Court Martial is empowered to impose sentences of death    
                                                                                  
          and/or imprisonment. He states that in terms of Article 13(4), only a   
          competent  court can impose any sentence of imprisonment or death.      
                                                                                  
          Accordingly, he submits that the Court Martial, being empowered to      
                                                                                  
          impose sentences of imprisonment and/or death, is a competent court     
                                                                                  
          in terms of Article 13(4), and as such, attracts the provisions of Article
          89(d) of the Constitution.                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          To my mind, this argument appears to be sensible up to this point.      
                                                                                  
          But one must now  consider the Petitioner’s argument that in terms of   
                                                                                  
          Article 105, a Court Martial is not recognised as a court and what Article
                                                                                  
          89(d) demands is a conviction by a court and nothing less. So also, in  
                                                                                  
          Article 4(c) it is provided that the judicial power of the People shall be
          exercised by Parliament through courts, tribunals and institutions, and 
                                                                                  
          so on, but Courts Martial are not referred to. Hence, the Petitioner    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         22       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          contends that the  Court Martial is not a ‘court’ in terms of the       
                                                                                  
          Constitution.                                                           
                                                                                  
          When  taken in isolation, or as the Attorney General puts it, in a vacuum,
                                                                                  
          this argument has merit. I will now proceed to examine whether the      
                                                                                  
          argument  fits in with the rest of the Constitution, because, as I have 
          earlier expressed, a Constitutional interpretation must withstand the   
                                                                                  
          Constitution as a whole and not merely parts of it.                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Let us consider Article 4(c) and its implications on the matter in issue
          here and its relationship to Article 105(1) and (2) which appear to be the
                                                                                  
          main Constitutional combatants in this most intriguing issue and their  
                                                                                  
          relationship to the relevant provisions of the Army Act as canvassed by 
                                                                                  
          the parties. A reproduction of Article 4(c) would be as follows:        
                                                                                  
               4(c) the judicial power of the  People shall be exercised by       
                                                                                  
               Parliament through courts, tribunals and institutions created and  
                                                                                  
               established, or recognized, by the Constitution, or created and    
               established by law, except in regard to matters relating to the    
                                                                                  
               privileges, immunities and powers  of Parliament  and  of its      
                                                                                  
               Members,  wherein  the judicial power of the People  may  be       
               exercised directly by Parliament according to law.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               105(1)    Subject to the  provisions of the Constitution, the      
                                                                                  
               institutions for the administration of justice which protect,      
               vindicate and enforce the rights of the People shall be-           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                         (a)  The Supreme Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka,     
                                                                                  
                         (b) The Court of Appeal of the Republic of Sri Lanka,    
                         (c)  The High Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka and     
                                                                                  
                              other Courts of First Instance, tribunals or such   
                                                                                  
                              institutions as Parliament may from time to time    
                                                                                  
                              ordain and establish.                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         23       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               105(2)   All courts, tribunals  and  institutions created and      
                                                                                  
               established  by  existing written law for the administration of    
               justice and for the adjudication of settlement of industrial and   
                                                                                  
               other disputes, other than the Supreme Court, shall be deemed to   
                                                                                  
               be courts, tribunals and institutions created and established by   
                                                                                  
               Parliament. Parliament may  replace or abolish, or, amend the      
               powers, duties, jurisdiction and procedure of such courts, tribunals
                                                                                  
               and institutions.                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Let us now set down the relevant provision of the Army Act:             
                                                                                  
               46(1)     A general  court martial may  be convened   by the       
                                                                                  
                         President or such officer not below that of a field      
                                                                                  
                         officer as may be authorized by the President.           
                                                                                  
                 (3)     The  president of a general court  martial shall be      
                                                                                  
                         appointed  by the  authority convening  such court       
                                                                                  
                         martial, and shall not be that authority or an officer of a
                         rank below that of a field officer...proviso             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               63(1)     ……the  conviction of and  sentence  passed on,  an       
                                                                                  
                         accused by  a court martial shall not be valid until     
                                                                                  
                         confirmed by the authority having power under s 64 to    
                         confirm such conviction and sentence.                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               64.       The authority who shall have the power to confirm the    
                                                                                  
                         conviction of an accused, and the sentence passed on     
                         him, by a court martial shall,                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                              (a)  if that court martial is a general court       
                                                                                  
                         martial, be the President or such officer of a rank not  
                         below that of field officer as may be authorized by the  
                                                                                  
                         President, or                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         24       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                              (b)                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               65.       (powers of confirming authority)                         
                                                                                  
          Now,  it seems that there is no contest between parties that a court    
                                                                                  
          martial, in trying a case, acts judicially. The Petitioner complains this is
          an instance where judicial power is exercised by the Executive and as   
                                                                                  
          such causes a disruption in the separation of powers and offends Article
                                                                                  
          4(c) of the Constitution.                                               
                                                                                  
          It is relevant at this point to set out Article 16 of the Constitution which
                                                                                  
          reads:                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               16(1) All existing written law and unwritten law shall be valid and
                    operative notwithstanding  any  inconsistency with  the       
                                                                                  
                    preceding provisions of this Chapter.                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 (2) The subjection of any person on the order of a competent     
                    court to any form of punishment recognised by any existing    
                                                                                  
                    law shall not be a contravention of the provisions of this    
                                                                                  
                    Chapter.                                                      
                                                                                  
          (The said Chapter III refers to Fundamental Rights)                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Let us now join Article 105(2) to Article 16:                           
                                                                                  
               105(2)   All courts, tribunals  and  institutions created and      
                                                                                  
                        established by existing written law for the administration
                                                                                  
                        of justice and for the adjudication of settlement of      
                        industrial and other disputes, other than the Supreme     
                                                                                  
                        Court, shall be deemed  to be  courts, tribunals and      
                                                                                  
                        institutions created and established by  Parliament.      
                                                                                  
                        Parliament may  replace or  abolish, or, amend  the       
                        powers, duties, jurisdiction and procedure  of such       
                                                                                  
                        courts, tribunals and institutions.                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         25       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The position would be that all courts institutions and tribunals except 
                                                                                  
          the Supreme  Court existing at the time of the promulgation of this     
          Constitution and the existing related laws continue so under  this      
                                                                                  
          Constitution. So, the Army  Act  has been   recognised under  this      
                                                                                  
          Constitution. It follows then that the concept of the court martial which
                                                                                  
          is part and parcel of the Army Act, and its competency to convict and   
          impose punishment  as according to the Army Act, is also recognised by  
                                                                                  
          this Constitution. Further support for this conclusion is added by Article
                                                                                  
          142:                                                                    
                                                                                  
               142. The Court of Appeal may direct-                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    (i)  that a prisoner detained in any prison be  brought       
                                                                                  
                         before a court martial or…for trial…;                    
                                                                                  
          Here again one finds support for a contention that the court martial is 
                                                                                  
          recognised by the Constitution- in direct and unequivocal terms.        
                                                                                  
          So, considering Article 4(c) in relation with Articles 105(2), 16, and 142,
                                                                                  
          one is driven to the conclusion that the court martial is an entity     
                                                                                  
          exercising judicial power and recognised by the Constitution as such in 
          terms of the second limb to Article 4(c).                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Now, as I have pointed out earlier, there is no contest that the concept
                                                                                  
          of the Court Martial is a reality and that it has the power to hear and try
          cases, act judicially, and impose valid sentences including imprisonment
                                                                                  
          and/or death. The only quarrel here is whether the Court Martial is “any
                                                                                  
          Court” in terms of Article 89 of the Constitution. The validity of the  
                                                                                  
          concept of Court Martial in itself and its power to determine cases and 
          impose sentences of imprisonment and/or death not being contested,      
                                                                                  
          and, the only contest being its status in the hierarchy of institutions 
                                                                                  
          dispensing justice, Article 13(4) of the Constitution brings it within the
                                                                                  
          description of not only a “court” but a “competent court”, since, in    
          terms of Article 13(4), only a “competent Court” can impose sentences   
                                                                                  
          of death or imprisonment.                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                         26       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Accordingly, having regard to the manifest intention of Article 91(a) read
                                                                                  
          with 89(d) to safeguard the integrity of Parliament, the recognition of 
          Courts Martial in Article 4(c) of the Constitution as well as in the direct
                                                                                  
          reference to Courts Martial in Article 142, the recognition of legislation
                                                                                  
          inclusive of the Army Act and Courts Martial therein existing at the time
                                                                                  
          of coming into force of the Constitution in terms of Article 16(2) and  
          105(2), the power of Courts Martial to impose sentences of death and    
                                                                                  
          imprisonment in terms of Section 133 of the Army Act read with Article  
                                                                                  
          13(4) of the Constitution wherein it provides that such sentences may   
                                                                                  
          be imposed only by competent courts, I hold that the Court Martial in   
          terms of the Army  Act is a “court” in terms of Article 89(d) of the    
                                                                                  
          Constitution.                                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                             Chief Justice                        
                                                                                  
          Dr. Bandaranayake J                                                     
          I agree                                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                        Judge of the Supreme Court                
          Amaratunga J                                                            
                                                                                  
          I agree                                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                        Judge of the Supreme Court                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Sripavan J                                                              
          I agree                                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                        Judge of the Supreme Court                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  